# Automate actions by routing external event streams: User scenarios
## Route GitHub event streams to rulebook activations
### Replace sources and attach GitHub event streams to activations

Attaching an event stream to a rulebook activation links your incoming GitHub data to specific automation rules. This process involves selecting a project and updating the event source to subscribe to the previously configured event stream.

#### Before you begin

Ensure that your projects have been set up properly. For more information, see [Set up a new project](/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.7/administer-assembly_eda_projects#GUID-0372bdfb-6b7f-4de7-9a43-bd4431aab994 "Set up a project to connect Event-Driven Ansible controller to a Git repository, enabling it to pull, sync, and manage the rulebooks used by your automation.")

#### Procedure

1.  From the Ansible Automation Platform navigation panel, select Automation Decisions> (and then)Rulebook Activations.
2.  Click Create rulebook activation to create a rulebook for events on an application repository for Linux servers.
3.  In the Name field, enter the name of your rulebook (for example, `<_Your_rulebook_activation_>`).
4.  For your Organization, select Default from the list.
5.  From the Project list, select the project with access to your rulebooks.
6.  In the Rulebook field, select the )rulebook associated with your project (for example, `<_Your-rulebook.yml_>`).
7.  In the Event streams field, click the gear icon to select which event stream the rulebook needs to subscribe to. The Event streams window is displayed.
8.  In the required Rulebook source field, replace an `ansible.builtin.webhook` or compatible custom source with the desired event stream. This modifies the activation only, while leaving your filters intact.
9.  Select <_Your_event_stream_> from the list of event streams that you created.
10.  Click Save to save your event stream.
11.  Next to the Credential field, click the Search icon to access automation controller and connect with job templates and workflows. The **Select credential** message is displayed.
12.  Select the Red Hat AAP credential and click Confirm.
13.  Select the appropriate Decision Environment from the list.
14.  Click Create rulebook activation. The activation status is displayed (if successful, the Running status displays).
15.  Repeat the following steps to create an additional rulebook activation using the same process as your first activation:
1.  In the Event streams field, click the gear icon to select which event stream the rulebook needs to subscribe to.
2.  Select the Repo Event Stream from the list of event streams that you created.
3.  Click Save to save your event stream.
4.  Click Create rulebook activation to save the configuration and start the rulebook.

#### Results

Now, there are two rulebook activations running and you can commit some code to one of your repositories. An event has been received and routed to your rulebooks.

