+++
path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/troubleshooting_ansible_automation_platform/index"
title = "Troubleshooting Ansible Automation Platform - Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6"

[extra]
category = "Configure and Operate"
category_description = ""
document_kind = "documentation"
modified = "2025-11-13T10:19:32.000Z"
multi_page_path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/troubleshooting_ansible_automation_platform/index/"
name = "Troubleshooting Ansible Automation Platform"
page_slug = "troubleshooting_ansible_automation_platform"
product = "Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform"
product_version = "2.6"
reference_url = "https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/troubleshooting_ansible_automation_platform/index"
type = "single-page"
+++


<span id="idm140261205858592"></span>
Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform2.6
## Troubleshoot issues with Ansible Automation Platform


Red Hat Customer Content Services

 [Legal Notice](#idm140261199214352) 
 **Abstract** 

This guide provides troubleshooting topics for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.




---

# Preface




Use the Troubleshooting Ansible Automation Platform guide to troubleshoot your Ansible Automation Platform installation.

# Providing feedback on Red Hat documentation




If you have a suggestion to improve this documentation, or find an error, you can contact technical support at [https://access.redhat.com](https://access.redhat.com) to open a request.

 **Disclaimer** : Links contained in this information to external website(s) are provided for convenience only. Red Hat has not reviewed the links and is not responsible for the content or its availability. The inclusion of any link to an external website does not imply endorsement by Red Hat of the website or their entities, products or services. You agree that Red Hat is not responsible or liable for any loss or expenses that may result due to your use of (or reliance on) the external site or content.

# Chapter 1. Diagnosing the problem




To start troubleshooting Ansible Automation Platform, use the `must-gather` command on OpenShift Container Platform or the `sos` utility on a VM-based installation to collect configuration and diagnostic information. You can attach the output of these utilities to your support case.

## 1.1. Troubleshooting Ansible Automation Platform on OpenShift Container Platform by using the must-gather command




The `oc adm must-gather` command line interface (CLI) command collects information from your Ansible Automation Platform installation deployed on OpenShift Container Platform. It gathers information that is often needed for debugging issues, including resource definitions and service logs.

Running the `oc adm must-gather` CLI command creates a new directory containing the collected data that you can use to troubleshoot or attach to your support case.

If your OpenShift environment does not have access to `registry.redhat.io` and you cannot run the `must-gather` command, then run the `oc adm inspect` command instead.

 **Prerequisites** 

- The OpenShift CLI ( `    oc` ) is installed.


 **Procedure** 

1. Log in to your cluster:
    
    
    ```
    oc login<span class="emphasis"><em><span class="Role ARG Spec Role ARG Spec">&lt;openshift_url&gt;</span></em></span>
    ```
    
    
1. Run one of the following commands based on your level of access in the cluster:
    
    
    - Run `        must-gather` across the entire cluster:
        
        
        ```
        oc adm must-gather --image=registry.redhat.io/ansible-automation-platform-25/aap-must-gather-rhel8 --dest-dir<span class="emphasis"><em><span class="Role ARG Spec Role ARG Spec">&lt;dest_dir&gt;</span></em></span>
        ```
        
        
        -  `            --image` specifies the image that gathers data
        -  `            --dest-dir` specifies the directory for the output
        
    - Run `        must-gather` for a specific namespace in the cluster:
        
        
        ```
        oc adm must-gather --image=registry.redhat.io/ansible-automation-platform-25/aap-must-gather-rhel8 --dest-dir<span class="emphasis"><em><span class="Role ARG Spec Role ARG Spec">&lt;dest_dir&gt;</span></em></span>– /usr/bin/ns-gather<span class="emphasis"><em><span class="Role ARG Spec Role ARG Spec">&lt;namespace&gt;</span></em></span>
        ```
        
        
        -  `            – /usr/bin/ns-gather` limits the `            must-gather` data collection to a specified namespace
        
    
1. To attach the `    must-gather` archive to your support case, create a compressed file from the `    must-gather` directory created before and attach it to your support case.
    
    
    - For example, on a computer that uses a Linux operating system, run the following command, replacing `        <span class="emphasis"><em><span class="Role ARG Spec Role ARG Spec">&lt;must-gather-local.5421342344627712289/&gt;</span></em></span>` with the `        must-gather` directory name:
        
        
        ```
        $ tar cvaf must-gather.tar.gz<span class="emphasis"><em><span class="Role ARG Spec Role ARG Spec">&lt;must-gather.local.5421342344627712289/&gt;</span></em></span>
        ```
        
        
    


 **Additional resources** 

-  [Installing the OpenShift CLI](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html) 
-  [ocm adm inspect](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/cli_reference/openshift_cli/administrator-cli-commands.html#oc-adm-inspect) 


## 1.2. Troubleshooting Ansible Automation Platform on VM-based installations by generating an sos report




The `sos` utility collects configuration, diagnostic, and troubleshooting data from your Ansible Automation Platform on a VM-based installation.

For more information about installing and using the `sos` utility, see [Generating an sos report for technical support](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/9/html-single/getting_the_most_from_your_support_experience/index#generating-an-sos-report-for-technical-support_getting-the-most-from-your-support-experience) .

# Chapter 2. Resources for troubleshooting automation controller




Find information about troubleshooting automation controller performance and logging issues.

- For information about performance troubleshooting for automation controller, see [Performance troubleshooting for automation controller](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/configuring_automation_execution/assembly-controller-improving-performance#ref-controller-performance-troubleshooting) in _Configuring automation execution_ .
- For information about troubleshooting automation controller logging, see [Troubleshooting logging](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/configuring_automation_execution/assembly-controller-logging-aggregation#ref-controller-troubleshoot-logging) in _Configuring automation execution_ .


# Chapter 3. Backup and recovery




Find information about troubleshooting backup and recovery operations for Ansible Automation Platform.

- For information about troubleshooting backup and recovery for installations of Ansible Automation Platform Operator on OpenShift Container Platform, see the [Troubleshooting](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/backup_and_recovery_for_operator_environments/assembly-aap-troubleshoot-backup-recover) section in _Backup and recovery for operator environments_ .


# Chapter 4. Execution environments




Resolve issues with execution environment images, including problems with the "Use in Controller" option.

## 4.1. Issue - Cannot select "Use in Controller" for execution environment on private automation hub




You cannot use the **Use in Controller** option for an execution environment image on private automation hub. You also receive the error message: “No Controllers available”.

To resolve this issue, connect automation controller to your private automation hub instance.

 **Procedure** 

1. Change the `    /etc/pulp/settings.py` file on private automation hub and add one of the following parameters depending on your configuration:
    
    
    - Single controller
        
        
        ```
        CONNECTED_ANSIBLE_CONTROLLERS = ['<span class="emphasis"><em><span class="Role ARG Spec Role ARG Spec">&lt;https://my.controller.node&gt;</span></em></span>']
        ```
        
        
    - Many controllers behind a load balancer
        
        
        ```
        CONNECTED_ANSIBLE_CONTROLLERS = ['<span class="emphasis"><em><span class="Role ARG Spec Role ARG Spec">&lt;https://my.controller.loadbalancer&gt;</span></em></span>']
        ```
        
        
    - Many controllers without a load balancer
        
        
        ```
        CONNECTED_ANSIBLE_CONTROLLERS = ['<span class="emphasis"><em><span class="Role ARG Spec Role ARG Spec">&lt;https://my.controller.node1&gt;</span></em></span>', '<span class="emphasis"><em><span class="Role ARG Spec Role ARG Spec">&lt;https://my.controller2.node2&gt;</span></em></span>']
        ```
        
        
    
1. Stop all of the private automation hub services:
    
    
    ```
    # systemctl stop pulpcore.service pulpcore-api.service pulpcore-content.service pulpcore-worker@1.service pulpcore-worker@2.service nginx.service redis.service
    ```
    
    
1. Restart all of the private automation hub services:
    
    
    ```
    # systemctl start pulpcore.service pulpcore-api.service pulpcore-content.service pulpcore-worker@1.service pulpcore-worker@2.service nginx.service redis.service
    ```
    
     **Verification** 
    
    
    - Verify that you can now use the **Use in Controller** option in private automation hub.
    


# Chapter 5. Installation




Find information about troubleshooting containerized, operator, and RPM-based installations of Ansible Automation Platform.

- For information about troubleshooting your containerized Ansible Automation Platform installation, see [Troubleshooting containerized Ansible Automation Platform installation](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/troubleshooting-containerized-ansible-automation-platform#troubleshooting-containerized-ansible-automation-platform-installation) .
- For information about troubleshooting your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform Operator on OpenShift Container Platform installation, see [Troubleshooting the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform Operator on OpenShift Container Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/installing_on_openshift_container_platform/assembly-operator-troubleshoot) .
- For information about troubleshooting your RPM-based installation of Ansible Automation Platform, see [Troubleshooting RPM installation of Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/appendix-troubleshoot-rpm-aap) .


# Chapter 6. Jobs




Resolve common job issues including module resolution errors, timeout errors, pending jobs, and permission errors.

## 6.1. Issue - Jobs are failing with “ERROR! couldn’t resolve module/action” error message




Jobs are failing with the error message “ERROR! couldn’t resolve module/action 'module name'. This often indicates a misspelling, missing collection, or incorrect module path”.

This error can happen when the collection associated with the module is missing from the execution environment.

The recommended resolution is to create a custom execution environment and add the required collections inside of that execution environment. For more information about creating an execution environment, see [Using Ansible Builder](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/creating_and_using_execution_environments/assembly-using-builder) in _Creating and using execution environments_ .

Alternatively, you can complete these steps:

 **Procedure** 

1. Create a `    collections` folder inside of the project repository.
1. Add a `    requirements.yml` file inside of the `    collections` folder and add the collection:
    
    
    ```
    collections:    - &lt;collection_name&gt;
    ```
    
    


## 6.2. Issue - Jobs failing with timeout waiting for privilege escalation prompt




This error can happen when the timeout value is too small, causing the job to stop before completion. The default timeout value for connection plugins is `10` .

To resolve the issue, increase the timeout value by completing one of the following methods.

Note
The following changes will affect all of the jobs in automation controller. To use a timeout value for a specific project, add an `ansible.cfg` file in the root of the project directory and add the `timeout` parameter value to that `ansible.cfg` file.



 **Procedure** 

- Increase the timeout value by using one of the following methods:
    
    
    -  **Add ANSIBLE_TIMEOUT as an environment variable in the automation controller UI:** 
        
        
        1. Go to automation controller.
        1. From the navigation panel, selectSettings→Jobs settings.
        1. Under **Extra Environment Variables** add the following:
            
            
            ```
            {            "ANSIBLE_TIMEOUT": 60            }
            ```
            
            
        
    -  **Add a timeout value in the [defaults] section of the ansible.cfg file:** 
        
        
        1. Edit the `            /etc/ansible/ansible.cfg` file and add the following:
            
            
            ```
            [defaults]            timeout = 60
            ```
            
            
        
    -  **Run ad hoc commands with a timeout:** 
        
        
        1. To run an ad hoc playbook in the command line, add the `            --timeout` flag to the `            ansible-playbook` command, for example:
            
            
            ```
            # ansible-playbook --timeout=60 &lt;your_playbook.yml&gt;
            ```
            
            
        
    


## 6.3. Issue - Jobs in automation controller are stuck in a pending state




After launching jobs in automation controller, the jobs stay in a pending state and do not start.

There are a few reasons jobs can become stuck in a pending state. For more information about troubleshooting this issue, see [Playbook stays in pending](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/configuring_automation_execution/controller-troubleshooting#controller-playbook-pending) in _Configuring automation execution_ 

 **Procedure** 

1. Run the following commands to list all of the pending jobs:
    
    
    ```
    # awx-manage shell_plus
    ```
    
    
    ```
    &gt;&gt;&gt; UnifiedJob.objects.filter(status='pending')
    ```
    
    
1. Cancel the pending jobs by using one of the following methods:
    
    
    - To cancel all pending jobs, run the following command:
        
        
        ```
        &gt;&gt;&gt; UnifiedJob.objects.filter(status='pending').update(status='canceled')
        ```
        
        
    - To cancel a single job, run the following command, replacing `        &lt;job_id&gt;` with the job ID to cancel:
        
        
        ```
        &gt;&gt;&gt; UnifiedJob.objects.filter(id=&lt;job_id&gt;).update(status='canceled')
        ```
        
        
    


## 6.4. Issue - Jobs failing with insufficient permissions error in private automation hub




Jobs are failing with the error message "denied: requested access to the resource is denied, unauthorized: Insufficient permissions". This happens when using an execution environment in private automation hub.

This issue occurs when you protect private automation hub with a password or token but do not assign the registry credential to the execution environment.

 **Procedure** 

1. Go to automation controller.
1. From the navigation panel, selectAdministration→Execution Environments.
1. Click the execution environment assigned to the job template that is failing.
1. ClickEdit.
1. Assign the appropriate **Registry credential** from your private automation hub to the execution environment.


 **Additional resources** 

-  [Creating new credentials](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/using_automation_execution/controller-credentials#controller-create-credential) 


# Chapter 7. Networking




Resolve networking issues including subnet conflicts and SSL/TLS certificate problems.

## 7.1. Issue - Container subnet conflicts with internal network




The default subnet used in Ansible Automation Platform containers conflicts with the internal network resulting in "No route to host" errors.

To resolve this issue, update the default classless inter-domain routing (CIDR) value so it does not conflict with the CIDR used by the default Podman networking plugin.

 **Procedure** 

1. In all controller and hybrid nodes, run the following commands to create a file called `    custom.py` :
    
    
    ```
    # touch /etc/tower/conf.d/custom.py
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # chmod 640 /etc/tower/conf.d/custom.py
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # chown root:awx /etc/tower/conf.d/custom.py
    ```
    
    
1. Add the following to the `    /etc/tower/conf.d/custom.py` file:
    
    
    ```
    DEFAULT_CONTAINER_RUN_OPTIONS = ['--network', 'slirp4netns:enable_ipv6=true,cidr=192.168.1.0/24']
    ```
    
    
    -  `        192.168.1.0/24` is the value for the new CIDR in this example.
    
1. Stop and start the automation controller service in all controller and hybrid nodes:
    
    
    ```
    # automation-controller-service stop
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # automation-controller-service start
    ```
    
    All containers will start on the new CIDR.
    
    


## 7.2. Troubleshooting SSL/TLS issues




To troubleshoot SSL/TLS issues, verify the certificate chain, use the correct certificates, and confirm that a trusted Certificate Authority (CA) signed the certificate.

 **Procedure** 

1. Check if the server is reachable over SSL/TLS.
    
    
    1. Run the following command to confirm whether the server is reachable over SSL/TLS and to see the full certificate chain:
        
        
        ```
        # true | openssl s_client -showcerts -connect &lt;fqdn_or_ip&gt;:&lt;port&gt;
        ```
        
        
    1. Replace `        &lt;fqdn_or_ip&gt;` and `        &lt;port&gt;` with suitable values.
    
1. Verify the certificate details.
    
    
    1. Run the following command to view the details of a certificate:
        
        
        ```
        # openssl x509 -in &lt;path_to_certificate&gt; -noout -text
        ```
        
        
    
1. Replace `    &lt;path_to_certificate&gt;` with the path to the certificate file you want to inspect.
    
    The result of the command shows information such as:
    
    
    - Subject - The entity the certificate has been issued to.
    - Issuer - The CA that issued the certificate.
    - Validity "Not Before" - The date the certificate was issued.
    - Validity "Not After" - The date the certificate expires.
    
1. Verify a trusted CA signed the certificate.
    
    
    1. Run the following command to verify that a specific certificate is valid and was signed by a trusted CA:
        
        
        ```
        openssl verify -CAfile &lt;path_to_ca_public_certificate&gt; &lt;path_to_server_certificate_file_to_verify&gt;
        ```
        
        
    1. If the command returns `        OK` , it means the certificate file is valid and signed by a trusted CA.
    


# Chapter 8. Playbooks




You can use automation content navigator to interactively troubleshoot your playbook. For more information, see [Troubleshooting Ansible content with automation content navigator](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/using_content_navigator/assembly-troubleshooting-navigator_installing-devtools) .

# Chapter 9. Upgrading




Troubleshoot issues when upgrading to Ansible Automation Platform 2.6.

## 9.1. Issue - automation controller API connection fails after upgrade with load balancer




When upgrading from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.6, the upgrade completes successfully. However, connections to the platform gateway URL fail if you are using automation controller behind a load balancer.

You see this error message in the logs:

 `Error connecting to Controller API` 

 **Procedure** 

1. To resolve this issue, perform the following tasks for all controller hosts:
    
    
    1. For each controller host, add the platform gateway URL as a trusted source in the `        CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGIN` setting in the **settings.py** file.
        
        For example, if you configured the platform gateway URL as `        https://www.example.com` , you must add that URL in the **settings.py** file too as shown:
        
        
        ```
        CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGINS = ['https://appX.example.com:8443','https://www.example.com']
        ```
        
        
    1. Restart each controller host by using the `        automation-controller-service restart` command so that the URL changes are implemented. For the procedure, see [Start, stop, and restart automation controller](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/configuring_automation_execution/controller-start-stop-controller) in _Configuring automation execution_ .
    



<span id="idm140261199214352"></span>
# Legal Notice

Copyright© 2025 Red Hat, Inc.
The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by Red Hat under a Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/) . In accordance with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version.
Red Hat, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Red Hat, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Shadowman logo, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, OpenShift, Fedora, the Infinity logo, and RHCE are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc., registered in the United States and other countries.
Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries.
Java® is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
XFS® is a trademark of Silicon Graphics International Corp. or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries.
MySQL® is a registered trademark of MySQL AB in the United States, the European Union and other countries.
Node.js® is an official trademark of Joyent. Red Hat is not formally related to or endorsed by the official Joyent Node.js open source or commercial project.
TheOpenStack® Word Mark and OpenStack logo are either registered trademarks/service marks or trademarks/service marks of the OpenStack Foundation, in the United States and other countries and are used with the OpenStack Foundation's permission. We are not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the OpenStack Foundation, or the OpenStack community.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.





