+++
path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/rpm_upgrade/index"
title = "RPM upgrade - Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6"

[extra]
category = "Upgrade"
category_description = ""
document_kind = "documentation"
modified = "2026-03-31T08:55:06.000Z"
multi_page_path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_upgrade/index/"
name = "RPM upgrade"
page_slug = "rpm_upgrade"
product = "Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform"
product_version = "2.6"
reference_url = "https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/rpm_upgrade/index"
type = "single-page"
+++


<span id="idm140446220473760"></span>
Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform2.6
## Upgrade to the latest version of Ansible Automation Platform


Red Hat Customer Content Services

 [Legal Notice](#idm140446220461344) 
 **Abstract** 

This guide shows you how to upgrade to the latest version of Ansible Automation Platform.




---

# Providing feedback on Red Hat documentation




If you have a suggestion to improve this documentation, or find an error, you can contact technical support at [https://access.redhat.com](https://access.redhat.com) to open a request.

# Chapter 1. Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 upgrades




Plan and execute the upgrade of your environment to version to ensure you receive the most current platform capabilities and critical security updates.

## 1.1. Ansible Automation Platform upgrades




You can upgrade your Ansible Automation Platform installation from version 2.4 or 2.5 to 2.6 using the supported upgrade paths. Review the available upgrade paths and required steps to ensure a successful upgrade of your Ansible Automation Platform environment.

Important
Upgrade from Event-Driven Ansible 2.5 to 2.6 is supported; however, upgrade from Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 to 2.6 is not supported. If you are upgrading from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.6 and you have deployed Event-Driven Ansible, you must first remove the Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 database and then upgrade your platform to 2.6. For information about the procedure, see [Removing Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 database](#proc-removing-eda-db_aap-upgrading-platform) .



Before beginning your upgrade be sure to review the prerequisites and upgrade planning sections of this guide.

|  **Supported upgrade path** |  **Steps to upgrade** |
| --- | --- |
| Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.6 | 1.  [Back up the platform using automation installer](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/controller-backup-and-restore#backup-using-automation-installer) .
1.  [Download the installation package](#con-choosing-obtaining-installer_aap-upgrading-platform) .
1.  [Set up your inventory file](#editing-inventory-file-for-updates_aap-upgrading-platform) to match your installation environment. See [Tested deployment models](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/tested_deployment_models) for a list of example inventory files.
1.  [Remove Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 database](#proc-removing-eda-db_aap-upgrading-platform) , if you deployed Event-Driven Ansible.
1.  [Run the 2.6 installation program](#proc-running-setup-script-for-updates) over your current Ansible Automation Platform instance. |
| Ansible Automation Platform 2.5 to 2.6 | 1.  [Back up the platform using automation installer](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/controller-backup-and-restore#backup-using-automation-installer) .
1.  [Download the installation package](#con-choosing-obtaining-installer_aap-upgrading-platform) .
1.  [Set up your inventory file](#editing-inventory-file-for-updates_aap-upgrading-platform) to match your installation environment. See [Tested deployment models](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/tested_deployment_models) for a list of example inventory files.
1.  [Run the 2.6 installation program](#proc-running-setup-script-for-updates) over your current Ansible Automation Platform instance. |
|  [Automation controller and automation hub 2.4 and Event-Driven Ansible 2.6 with unified UI upgrades](#upgrade-controller-hub-eda-unified-ui_aap-upgrading-platform) | Upgrade the 2.4 services (using inventory file to only specify automation controller and automation hub VMs) to get them to the initial version of Ansible Automation Platform 2.6.

After all the services are at the same version, run a 2.6 upgrade on all the services. |


# Chapter 2. Upgrading to Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6




To upgrade your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform, start by reviewing [Planning your upgrade](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade) to ensure a successful upgrade. You can then download the desired version of the Ansible Automation Platform installer, configure the inventory file in the installation bundle to reflect your environment, and then run the installer.

Important
In Ansible Automation Platform 2.6, while the automation controller’s API remains for backward compatibility, new installations must use the platform gateway API for managing organizations, teams, and users. Using the legacy API will introduce a delay of up to 15 minutes before changes are synchronized to all components, including Event-Driven Ansible controller.



## 2.1. Upgrade prerequisites




Before you begin the upgrade process, review the following considerations to plan and prepare your Ansible Automation Platform deployment:

### 2.1.1. Ansible Automation Platform requirements




- Verify that you have a valid subscription before upgrading from a previous version of Ansible Automation Platform. Existing subscriptions are carried over during the upgrade process.
- Review [Planning your upgrade](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade) to understand the upgrade requirements and scenarios, and [Tested deployment models](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/tested_deployment_models) for the RPM topologies and infrastructure.
    
    
    - Inspect all existing SAML authenticators in your automation controller environment before upgrading from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.6. Encrypted private keys for SAML configurations are not supported in Ansible Automation Platform 2.6. For more information, see the [Authentication type: SAML](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-authentication-movement-2.4-to-2.6#upgrade-saml-auth) section in the _Planning your upgrade_ guide.
    
- Ensure that you are on Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 or 2.5 before upgrading to 2.6. You can only upgrade from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 or 2.5 to 2.6.
- Upgrade to the latest version of Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 or 2.5 before upgrading to Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6.
    
    Important
    
    - When upgrading from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.6, the API endpoints for the automation controller, automation hub, and Event-Driven Ansible controller are all available for use. These APIs are being deprecated and will be disabled in an upcoming release. This grace period is to allow for migration to the new APIs put in place with the platform gateway.
    - If you upgraded from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.5, you must migrate your authentication methods and users before upgrading to 2.6 as that legacy authenticator functionality was removed. For information about migrating users, see [Migrating Single Sign-On (SSO) users](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/rpm_upgrade_and_migration/aap-post-upgrade#con-migrate-SAML-users_aap-post-upgrade) in _RPM Upgrade and Migration guide_ for 2.5.
    
    
    
- Back up your Ansible Automation Platform environment before upgrading in case any issues occur. See [Back up the platform using automation installer](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/controller-backup-and-restore#backup-using-automation-installer) and [Backup and recovery for operator environments](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/backup_and_recovery_for_operator_environments) for the specific topology of the environment.
- Capture your inventory or instance group details before upgrading.
- Review the platform gateway requirements:
    
    
    - Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.6 upgrades include the [platform gateway](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/ref-aap-components#con-about-platform-gateway_planning) . Ensure you review the 2.6 [Network ports and protocols](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/network-ports-protocols_planning) for architectural changes.
    - Platform gateway has a number of associated inventory file variables, some of which are required. For details of the new and changed variables for 2.6, see [Appendix A. Inventory file variables](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/appendix-inventory-files-vars) .
    - When upgrading from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.6, connections to the platform gateway URL might fail on the platform gateway UI if you are using the automation controller behind a load balancer. The following error message is displayed: `        Error connecting to Controller API` 
        
        To resolve this issue, for each automation controller host, add the platform gateway URL as a trusted source in the `        CSRF_TRUSTED_ORIGIN` setting in the **settings.py** file for each automation controller host. You must then restart each automation controller host so that the URL changes are implemented. For more information, see _Upgrading_ in [Troubleshooting Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/troubleshooting_ansible_automation_platform) .
        
        
    
- Review the [centralized Redis](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/ha-redis_planning#gw-centralized-redis_planning) instance offered by Ansible Automation Platform for both standalone and clustered topologies.
    
    
    - Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 offers a centralized Redis instance in both [standalone](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/ha-redis_planning#gw-single-node-redis_planning) and [clustered](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/ha-redis_planning#gw-clustered-redis_planning) topologies. For information on how to configure Redis, see [Configuring Redis](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/assembly-platform-install-scenario#redis-config-enterprise-topology_platform-install-scenario) in the RPM installation guide.
    - 6 VMs are required for a Redis high availability (HA) compatible deployment. Redis can be colocated on each Ansible Automation Platform component VM except for automation controller, execution nodes, or the PostgreSQL database.
    - External Redis is not supported for RPM-based deployments of Ansible Automation Platform.
    
- Limitation:
    
    
    - Upgrade of Event-Driven Ansible 2.5 to 2.6 is supported, but upgrade from Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 to 2.6 is not supported. Database migrations between Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 and Event-Driven Ansible 2.6 are not compatible. If you are upgrading from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.6 and you deployed Event-Driven Ansible, you must first remove the Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 database and then upgrade your platform to 2.6. For information about the procedure, see [Removing Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 database](#proc-removing-eda-db_aap-upgrading-platform) .
    


### 2.1.2. System requirements




| Type | Description | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
|  **Subscription** | Valid Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform subscription |  |
|  **Operating system** | Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.4 or later minor versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 | Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform are also supported on OpenShift, see [Installing on OpenShift Container Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/installing_on_openshift_container_platform) for more information. |
|  **CPU architecture** | x86_64, AArch64, s390x (IBM Z), ppc64le (IBM Power) |  |
|  **Ansible-core** | Ansible-core version 2.16 or later | Ansible Automation Platform uses the system-wide ansible-core package to install the platform, but uses ansible-core 2.16 for both its control plane and built-in execution environments. |
|  **Browser** | A currently supported version of Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome. |  |
|  **Database** | - For Ansible Automation Platform managed databases: PostgreSQL 15.
- For customer provided (external) databases: PostgreSQL 15, 16, or 17. | - External (customer supported) databases require International Components for Unicode (ICU) support.
- External databases using PostgreSQL 16 or 17 must rely on external backup and restore processes. Backup and restore functionality is dependent on utilities provided with PostgreSQL 15. |


### 2.1.3. Database requirements




- Ansible Automation Platform can work with two varieties of database:
    
    
    - Database installed with Ansible Automation Platform - This database consists of a PostgreSQL installation done as part of an Ansible Automation Platform installation using PostgreSQL packages provided by Red Hat.
    - Customer provided or configured database - This is an external database that is provided by the customer, whether on bare metal, virtual machine, container, or cloud hosted service. Ansible Automation Platform requires customer provided (external) database to have ICU support.
    
- PostgreSQL user passwords are hashed with SCRAM-SHA-256 secure hashing algorithm before storing in the database.
- Ensure that you back up your Ansible Automation Platform environment before upgrading in case any issues occur. See [Backup and restore](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/controller-backup-and-restore) and [Backup and recovery for operator environments](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/backup_and_recovery_for_operator_environments) for the specific topology of the environment.


### 2.1.4. User privileges




- Ensure a dedicated non-root user is configured on the Red Hat Enterprise Linux host.
    
    
    - This user requires sudo or other Ansible supported privilege escalation (sudo is recommended) to perform administrative tasks during the installation.
    - This user is responsible for the installation of RPM Ansible Automation Platform.
    - You can obtain root access either through the sudo command, or through privilege escalation. You can de-escalate privileges from root to users such as AWX, PostgreSQL, Event-Driven Ansible, or Pulp.
    - An NTP client is configured on each node.
    


 **Additional resources** 

-  [Attaching your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform subscription](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/assembly-platform-install-overview#proc-attaching-subscriptions) 
-  [Backup and restore Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_upgrade/controller-backup-and-restore) 
-  [Clustering](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/configuring_automation_execution/controller-clustering) 
-  [Planning your upgrade](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/index) 
-  [Planning your installation](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/index) 


## 2.2. Choosing and obtaining a Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer




Choose the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer you need based on your Red Hat Enterprise Linux environment internet connectivity. Review the following scenarios and decide on which Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer meets your needs.

Note
A valid Red Hat customer account is required to access Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer downloads on the Red Hat Customer Portal.



### 2.2.1. Installing with internet access




Choose the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installation program if your Red Hat Enterprise Linux environment is connected to the internet. Installing with internet access retrieves the latest required repositories, packages, and dependencies.

Choose one of the following ways to set up your Ansible Automation Platform installation program.

 **Procedure** 

-  **Tarball install** 
    
    
    1. Navigate to the [Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform download](https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/480/ver=2.6/rhel---9/2.6/x86_64/product-software) page.
    1. In the **Product software** tab, clickDownload Nowfor the **Ansible Automation Platform <latest-version> Setup** .
    1. Extract the files:
        
        
        ```
        $ tar xvzf ansible-automation-platform-setup-&lt;latest-version&gt;.tar.gz
        ```
        
        
    
-  **RPM install** 
    
    
    1. Install the Ansible Automation Platform Installer Package.
        
        v.2.6 for RHEL 9 for x86-64:
        
        
        ```
        $ sudo dnf install --enablerepo=ansible-automation-platform-2.6-for-rhel-9-x86_64-rpms ansible-automation-platform-installer
        ```
        
        Note
         `        dnf install` enables the repo as the repo is disabled by default.
        
        
        
        When you use the RPM installer, the files are placed under the `        /opt/ansible-automation-platform/installer` directory.
        
        
    


### 2.2.2. Installing without internet access




Use the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform **Bundle** installation program if you are unable to access the internet, or would prefer not to install separate components and dependencies from online repositories. Access to Red Hat Enterprise Linux repositories is still needed. The `tar` archive includes all other dependencies.

 **Procedure** 

1. Navigate to the [Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform download](https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/480/ver=2.6/rhel---9/2.6/x86_64/product-software) page.
1. In the **Product software** tab, clickDownload Nowfor the **Ansible Automation Platform <latest-version> Setup Bundle** .
1. Extract the files:
    
    
    ```
    $ tar xvzf ansible-automation-platform-setup-bundle-&lt;latest-version&gt;.tar.gz
    ```
    
    


## 2.3. Setting up the inventory file




Before upgrading your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installation, edit the `inventory` file so that it matches your required configuration. You can keep the same parameters from your existing Ansible Automation Platform deployment or you can update the parameters to match any changes to your environment.

You can find sample inventory files in the [Test topologies](https://github.com/ansible/test-topologies/) GitHub repository, or in our [Tested deployment models](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/tested_deployment_models) guide.

 **Procedure** 

1. Navigate to the installation program directory.
    
    
1. Open the `    inventory` file for editing.
1. Modify the `    inventory` file to provision new nodes, deprovision nodes or groups, and import or generate automation hub API tokens.
    
    You can use the same `    inventory` file from an existing Ansible Automation Platform installation if there are no changes to the environment.
    
    Note
    Provide a reachable IP address or fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for all hosts to ensure that users can synchronize and install content from Ansible automation hub from a different node. Do not use `    localhost` . If `    localhost` is used, the upgrade will be stopped as part of preflight checks.
    
    
    
    
1. Provision new nodes in a cluster, by adding new nodes alongside existing nodes in the `    inventory` file as follows:
    
    
    ```
    [automationcontroller]    clusternode1.example.com    clusternode2.example.com    clusternode3.example.com        [all:vars]    admin_password='password'        pg_host='&lt;host_name&gt;'        pg_database='&lt;database_name&gt;'    pg_username='&lt;your_username&gt;'    pg_password='&lt;your_password&gt;'
    ```
    
    


## 2.4. Removing Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 database




Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 supports upgrades from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 environments for all components, except for Event-Driven Ansible. Database migrations between Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 and Event-Driven Ansible 2.6 are not compatible.

If you are upgrading from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.6, you must first remove the Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 database. A new Event-Driven Ansible 2.6 database gets created automatically after the upgrade. You can then reconnect Automation Decisions (Event-Driven Ansible controller) to Automation Execution (automation controller) to run rulebook activations.

Note
When upgrading from Ansible Automation Platform 2.5 to 2.6, the Event-driven Ansible component will be updated automatically. You are not required to delete the existing Event-Driven Ansible 2.5 database before upgrading your platform to 2.6.



 **Procedure** 

1. Shut down the old Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 host.
1. Log in to your database host with a user that has superuser privileges.
    
     `    # psql -h &lt;hostname&gt; -U &lt;username&gt;` 
    
    
1. When prompted, enter your password.
1. Delete the existing Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 database by using the following command:
    
     `    DROP DATABASE automationedacontroller` 
    
    
1. When prompted, reenter your password.


 **Next steps** 

1.  [Run the Ansible Automation Platform installer setup script](#proc-running-setup-script-for-updates) .
1. After the upgrade is completed, reconnect Automation Decisions (Event-Driven Ansible controller) to Automation Execution (automation controller) to run rulebook activations successfully.


## 2.5. Running the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer setup script




Execute the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer setup script after configuring your `inventory` file. This action initiates the installation or update process, applying all your custom settings to deploy the platform successfully.

 **Procedure** 

- Run the `    setup.sh` script:
    
    
    ```
    $ ./setup.sh
    ```
    
    The installation will begin.
    
    


## 2.6. Verifying user migration




During the upgrade to Ansible Automation Platform 2.6, controller user accounts are converted into platform user accounts. Controller administrators retain their administrative privileges, but they are converted into platform administrator privileges.

Other controller accounts become platform users, and their existing permissions are mapped over appropriately after an initial password reset. Users with existing accounts associated with other components (like private automation hub and Event-Driven Ansible) must have their passwords reset by their administrator before they can log in.

Authenticator configurations are automatically migrated. SSO and LDAP accounts do not require any manual migration steps, including password resets, with the exception of accounts that use a certificate from the trust store. See [Configuring authentication in the Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade) for more information on migrating authentication configurations that use a custom certificate.

After your upgrade to Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 is complete, verify that you can log in to the upgraded platform.

 **Procedure** 

- If you have a controller account that has been converted to a platform gateway account for Ansible Automation Platform 2.6:
    
    
    - Log into your upgraded platform instance with your controller credentials.
    
- If you have a component-level account (such as an account associated with private automation hub or Event-Driven Ansible):
    
    
    - Request a password reset from your administrator and log into the upgraded platform with your new password.
    


## 2.7. Automation controller and automation hub 2.4 and Event-Driven Ansible 2.6 with unified UI upgrades




Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 supports upgrades from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 environments for all components, with the exception of Event-Driven Ansible. You can also configure a mixed environment with Event-Driven Ansible from 2.6 connected to an existing 2.4 cluster.

Combining install methods (OpenShift Container Platform, RPM, Containerized) within such a topology is not supported by Ansible Automation Platform.

Note
If you are running the 2.4 version of Event-Driven Ansible in production, before you upgrade, contact Red Hat support or your account representative for more information on how to move to Ansible Automation Platform 2.6.



Supported topologies described in this document assume that:

- 2.4 services will only include automation controller and automation hub.
- 2.6 parts will always include Event-Driven Ansible and the unified UI (platform gateway).
- Combining installation methods for these topologies is not supported.


### 2.7.1. Upgrade considerations




- You must have two inventory files as a starting point: one for the 2.4 services and one for the 2.6 services.
- Before running the upgrade, you must merge the 2.4 inventory into the 2.6 inventory. The platform gateway host must be included in the inventory for the installation program to run successfully.
- Run the upgrade on the merged 2.6 inventory file only.
- You must be using an external database for both the 2.4 inventory and 2.6 inventory.
- Customers using managed database instances for either 2.4 or 2.6 inventory must migrate to an external database first, before upgrading.


### 2.7.2. Using migration path for 2.4 instances with managed databases




Migrate Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 instances with managed databases to 2.6 by upgrading automation controller and automation hub before enabling unified UI and Event-Driven Ansible.

 **Prerequisites** 

- An inventory from 2.4 for automation controller and automation hub and a 2.6 inventory for the unified UI (platform gateway) and Event-Driven Ansible. You must merge both inventories into a single 2.6 inventory file before running the upgrade. The platform gateway host must be included in the inventory for the installation program to run successfully.


Important
Ensure you have upgraded to the latest version of Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 before merging inventories and running the 2.6 upgrade.



 **Procedure** 

-  **For standalone node managed database** 
    
    
    - Convert the database node to an external one, removing it from the inventory. The PostgreSQL node will continue working and will not lose the Ansible Automation Platform-provided setup, but you are responsible for managing its configuration afterward.
    
-  **For collocated managed database** 
    
    
    1. Back up
    1. Restore with standalone managed database node instead of collocated
    1. Unmanaged standalone database
    


### 2.7.3. Using Migration path for 2.4 services with 2.6 services




If you installed Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 to use Event-Driven Ansible in a supported scenario, you can upgrade your Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 automation controller and automation hub to Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 by following this procedure.

 **Prerequisites** 

- An inventory from 2.4 for automation controller and automation hub and a 2.6 inventory for the unified UI (platform gateway) and Event-Driven Ansible. You must merge both inventories into a single 2.6 inventory file before running the upgrade. The platform gateway host must be included in the inventory for the installation program to run successfully.


Important
Ensure you have upgraded to the latest version of Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 before merging inventories and running the 2.6 upgrade.



 **Procedure** 

1. Merge 2.4 inventory data into the 2.6 inventory.
    
    The example below shows the inventory file for automation controller and automation hub for 2.4 and the inventory file for Event-Driven Ansible and the unified UI (platform gateway) for 2.6, respectively, as the starting point, and what the merged inventory looks like.
    
     **Inventory files from 2.4** 
    
    
    ```
    [automationcontroller]    controller-1    controller-2        [automationhub]    hub-1    hub-2        [all:vars]    # Here we have the admin passwd, db credentials, etc.
    ```
    
     **Inventory files from 2.6** 
    
    
    ```
    [automationedacontroller]    eda-1    eda-2        [automationgateway]    gw-1    gw-2        [all:vars]    # Here we have admin passwd, db credentials etc.
    ```
    
     **Merged Inventory** 
    
    
    ```
    [automationcontroller]    controller-1    controller-2        [automationhub]    hub-1    hub-2        [automationedacontroller]    eda-1    eda-2        [automationgateway]    gw-1    gw-2        [all:vars]    # Here we have admin passwd, db credentials etc from both inventories above
    ```
    
    
1. Run `    setup.sh` 
    
    The installation program upgrades all services to the latest version of Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 and connects them to the unified UI (platform gateway).
    
    


 **Verification** 

- Verify that everything has upgraded to 2.6 and is working properly in one of two ways:
    
    
    - Perform an SSH to automation controller and Event-Driven Ansible.
    - In the unified UI, go toHelp→Aboutto verify the RPM versions are at 2.6.
    


# Chapter 3. Backup and restore Ansible Automation Platform




You can protect your Ansible Automation Platform environment by backing up the database, configuration files, and keys. Use the `./setup.sh` script or playbooks to create compressed artifacts. This ensures a recovery path for single nodes or clusters, including restores, to secondary instances.

Note
Use the installation program matching your current Ansible Automation Platform version for backups, and always use the latest available version for restores. Ensure your PostgreSQL version is supported by checking the [System requirements](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/platform-system-requirements) in _Planning your installation_ .



## 3.1. Backup and restoration considerations




Consider the following points when you backup and restore your system:

## 3.2. Back up the Ansible Automation Platform




Back up your instance using the `setup.sh` script to save your environment content and configuration. Use the optional `backup_dest` flag only to change the default save location. Apply compression flags to reduce artifact size before transmission.

### 3.2.1. Backup playbook




The Ansible Automation Platform installer ( `install.yml` ) includes the `backup.yml` playbook, which automates the backup and restoration of your environment. You can use this playbook to capture critical configuration data and databases for the following components:

- Platform gateway:
    
    
    - The database
    - The `        SECRET_KEY` file
    
- Automation controller:
    
    
    - The database
    - The `        SECRET_KEY` file
    - The `        RESOURCE_SERVER`` key
    - The per-host custom configuration files
    
- Automation hub:
    
    
    - The database
    - The database_fields.symmetric.key file
    - The `        SECRET_KEY`` file
    - The `        RESOURCE_SERVER` key
    - Automation hub pulp content
    
- Event-Driven Ansible controller:
    
    
    - The database
    - The `        SECRET_KEY` file
    - The `        RESOURCE_SERVER` key
    


### 3.2.2. Back up the platform using automation installer




Run the setup script to create a verified archive of your platform database, configurations, and secrets. This ensures your instance is captured in a compatible format for reliable restoration during a system failure or migration.

 **Procedure** 

1. Navigate to your Ansible Automation Platform installation directory.
1. Run the `    ./setup.sh` script following the example below:
    
    
    ```
    $ ./setup.sh -e 'backup_dest=/ansible/mybackup' -e    'use_archive_compression=true' 'use_db_compression=true @credentials.yml -b
    ```
    
    Where:
    
    
    -  `        backup_dest` : Specifies a directory to save your backup to.
    -  `        backup_dir` : Specifies the directory used on the host staging backup files before they are transferred to `        backup_dest` locally.
    -  `        use_archive_compression=true` and `        use_db_compression=true` : Compresses the backup artifacts before they are sent to the host running the backup operation.
        
        You can use the following variables to customize the compression:
        
        
        - For global control of compression for filesystem related backup files: `            use_archive_compression=true` 
        - For component-level control of compression for filesystem related backup files: `            &lt;componentName&gt;_use_archive_compression` 
        - For global control of compression for database related backup files: `            use_db_compression=true` 
        - For component-level control of compression for database related backup files: `            &lt;componentName&gt;_use_db_compression=true` 
        
    


 **Result** 

After a successful backup, a backup file is created at `/ansible/mybackup/automation-platform-backup-&lt;date/time&gt;.tar.gz` .


## 3.3. Restore Ansible Automation Platform




Restoring your instance using the `setup.sh script` helps you safely reinstate your environment content and configuration. Use the optional `restore_backup_file` flag _only_ to change the TAR file location.

### 3.3.1. Restore playbook




Automation controller includes playbooks to backup and restore your installation.

In addition to the `install.yml` file included with your `setup.sh` setup playbook, there are also `restore.yml` files.

The restore backup restores the backed up files and data to a freshly installed and working second instance of automation controller.

When restoring your system, installation program checks to see that the backup file exists before beginning the restoration. If the backup file is not available, your restoration fails.

Note
Make sure that your automation controller hosts are properly set up with SSH keys, user or pass variables in the hosts file, and that the user has `sudo` access.



### 3.3.2. Restore the platform to its original state




Restore your environment by running the setup.sh script to recover platform data and configurations. Ensure the backup TAR file is available in the default location, or use the optional `restore_backup_file` flag to specify a custom path before starting.

 **Procedure** 

1. Navigate to your Ansible Automation Platform installation directory.
1. Run the ./setup.sh script following the example:
    
    
    ```
    root@localhost:~# ./setup.sh -e 'restore_backup_file=/path/to/nondefault/backup.tar.gz' -r
    ```
    
    Where: `    restore_backup_file` : Path to the TAR file used for the platform restore.
    
    



<span id="idm140446220461344"></span>
# Legal Notice

Copyright© Red Hat.
Except as otherwise noted below, the text of and illustrations in this documentation are licensed by Red Hat under the Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 3.0 Unported license . If you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version.
Red Hat, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Red Hat, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, Hibernate, and RHCE are trademarks or registered trademarks of Red Hat, LLC. or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.
Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries.
XFS is a trademark or registered trademark of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.
TheOpenStack® Word Mark and OpenStack logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of the Linux Foundation, used under license.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.





