# Configuration notes for all authentication types
## Update callback URLs for OAuth and SSO providers

After architectural changes in Ansible Automation Platform 2.6, you must manually update the `callback_url` in your IdPs (GitHub, Entra ID, etc.). This redirect now points to the platform gateway instead of the controller and is dynamically generated for each authenticator.

### Before you begin

- You have administrative access to the configuration settings of your external IdP.

### About this task

Important:

After upgrading, your authentication method is disabled. As a platform administrator ensure that you enable the authenticator.

The `callback_url` is normally auto-generated by Ansible Automation Platform once the authentication method is configured. You must copy this generated URL from within Ansible Automation Platform and then paste it into your IdP’s settings.

### Procedure

1.  Go to your authenticator’s configuration details within the Ansible Automation Platform UI to locate the `callback_url`. For more information, see [Displaying authenticator details](/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.7/secure-assembly_gw_managing_authentication#gw-display-auth-details "After you locate the authenticator you want to review, you can display the configuration details:").

2.  Identify and copy the auto-generated **Callback URL**, **Redirect URL**, or **Reply URL** that Ansible Automation Platform provides for your specific authentication method.
3.  Update your IdP’s configuration by pasting the copied redirect URL from Ansible Automation Platform into your IdP’s configuration where necessary.

### Results

Verify that the `callback_url` has been updated correctly and authentication is working:

- Log in to Ansible Automation Platform as an administrator account and enable the authentication method, if you have not already.
- Log in to Ansible Automation Platform using the newly configured or updated OAuth or SSO provider. A successful login indicates correct configuration.

