+++
path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_release_notes/index"
title = "Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant Release Notes - Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant 2.x_latest"

[extra]
modified = "2025-10-01T10:14:35.000Z"
multi_page_path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_release_notes/index/"
name = "Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant Release Notes"
page_slug = "red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_release_notes"
product = "Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant"
product_version = "2.x_latest"
reference_url = "https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_release_notes/index"
type = "single-page"
+++


<span id="idm139828495870960"></span>
Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant2.x_latest
## New features and enhancements information.


Red Hat Customer Content Services

 [Legal Notice](#idm139828495435184) 
 **Abstract** 

This guide contains a summary of new features, enhancements, and bug fixes for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant.




---

# Making open source more inclusive




Red Hat is committed to replacing problematic language in our code, documentation, and web properties. We are beginning with these four terms: master, slave, blacklist, and whitelist. Because of the enormity of this endeavor, these changes will be implemented gradually over several upcoming releases. For more details, see [our CTO Chris Wright’s message](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/making-open-source-more-inclusive-eradicating-problematic-language) .

# Chapter 1. Overview




Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant is a generative AI service that helps automation teams create, adopt, and maintain Ansible content more efficiently. It uses natural language prompts to generate code recommendations for automation tasks based on Ansible best practices. Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed is also the cloud service that enables the integration of generative AI into Ansible Automation Platform.

To use the Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed cloud service, you must meet **one** of the following requirements:

- Your organization has a trial or paid subscription to both the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform and IBM watsonx Code Assistant.
- Your organization has a trial or paid subscription to the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform, and you have a Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed trial account.
    
    Note
    A Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed trial account does not require an IBM watsonx Code Assistant subscription.
    
    
    
    


To use an on-premise deployment of Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed, your organization must have the following subscriptions:

- A trial or paid subscription to the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform
- An installation of IBM watsonx Code Assistant for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on Cloud Pak for Data


# Chapter 2. New features and enhancements




The release notes for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant summarize all new features, enhancements, and any known bugs.

## 2.1. 1 October 2025




- Enhancement
    
    
    - Support for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployment on Ansible Automation Platform 2.6
        
        Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed is now available for on-premise deployment on Ansible Automation Platform 2.6. For more information, see [Setting up Ansible Automation Platform on-premise deployment](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/set-up-lightspeed_lightspeed-user-guide#configuring-lightspeed-onpremise_set-up-lightspeed) .
        
        
    
- Deprecated feature
    
    
    - The Ansible code bot (as described in chapter [Installing and configuring the Ansible code bot](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/using-code-bot-for-suggestions_lightspeed-user-guide) ) is being deprecated, and will be retired on December 31, 2025.
    
- Known issue
    
    
    - If you have an existing deployment of Ansible Lightspeed on Ansible Automation Platform 2.5, upgrading to Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 will cause your Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployment to fail. To avoid this failure, do not upgrade to Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 until a forthcoming patch is released on October 22, 2025. However, new deployments of Ansible Lightspeed will work correctly on Ansible Automation Platform 2.6. (AAP-54064).
    


## 2.2. 30 July 2025




This release features the following enhancement:

 **Ability to enable or disable PII anonymization on Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployments** 

Organization administrators can now enable or disable Personally Identifiable Information (PII) anonymization on Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployments by using the `model_enable_anonymization key` . PII includes passwords, IP addresses, email addresses, and other sensitive data. When PII anonymization is enabled, users' personal information is modified to some generic values to protect their data and reduce the risk of data leaks.

For information about enabling or disabling PII anonymization, see [Creating connection secrets](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/set-up-lightspeed_lightspeed-user-guide#create-connection-secrets_configuring-lightspeed-onpremise) .

## 2.3. 29 May 2025




This release features the following enhancement:

 **Availability of the hybrid deployment model** 

Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed now supports a hybrid deployment model, wherein Ansible administrators can configure Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployment with a cloud deployment of the IBM watsonx Code Assistant model.

This new offering provides the following benefits:

- Enables you to set up an on-premise deployment of Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed, with an option to use an IBM watsonx Code Assistant model that is on either an on-premise environment or a cloud environment.
- Provides the freedom and flexibility to choose an environment that best suits your organizational needs.
- Enables organizations to use the Ansible Automation Platform for user authentication, instead of logging into the Red Hat cloud.
- Enables organizations to deploy the Ansible Automation Platform in their preferred region.


For information on setting up an on-premise or hybrid deployment model, see [Setting up Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployment](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/set-up-lightspeed_lightspeed-user-guide#configuring-lightspeed-onpremise_set-up-lightspeed) .

## 2.4. 28 April 2025




This release features the following enhancement:

 **Ability to view audit logs** 

The Ansible Visual Studio (VS Code) extension now records all Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed operations in an audit log for future use. Each interaction is recorded with a timestamp, the type of action performed, details of the requested task, and other relevant information. The logs are displayed in the Ansible Lightspeed Output Channel of the VS Code editor and are available until the user closes VS Code.

For more information, see [Viewing the audit logs](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/index#view-logs_developing-ansible-content) .

## 2.5. 20 March 2025




This release features the following enhancements:

-  **Ability to generate roles and view role explanations** 
    
    Role generation and viewing role explanations are now supported on the Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed cloud service. You can create roles within Ansible collections from the Ansible VS Code extension using a natural language interface in English. You can also view the explanations for new or existing roles. For more information, see [Creating roles and viewing role explanations](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/developing-ansible-content_lightspeed-user-guide#role-creation_developing-ansible-content) .
    
    
-  **Availability of REST API on on-premise deployments** 
    
    Platform administrators can now configure and use the Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed REST API to build a custom automation development and tooling workflow outside of VS Code. For more information, see [Using the Ansible Lightspeed REST API](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/set-up-lightspeed_lightspeed-user-guide#use-rest-api_configuring-lightspeed-onpremise) and [Ansible AI Connect. 1.0.0 (v1)](https://developers.redhat.com/api-catalog/api/ansible-lightspeed) in the API catalog.
    
    
-  **Removal of unnecessary settings from the initial configuration of Ansible VS Code extension** 
    
    The initial configuration of the Ansible VS Code extension now has fewer settings that are enabled by default. For more information, see [Configuring the Ansible VS Code extension](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/developing-ansible-content_lightspeed-user-guide#configure-vscode-extension_developing-ansible-content) .
    
    


## 2.6. 11 December 2024




This release features the following enhancement:

 **Playbook generation and viewing playbook explanations are now supported on Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployments** 

Using the Ansible VS Code extension, you can create Ansible playbooks using a natural language interface in English. You can also view the explanations for new or existing playbooks. For more information, see [Creating playbooks and viewing playbook explanations](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/index#playbook-generation_developing-ansible-content) .

## 2.7. 21 August 2024




This release features the following enhancement:

 **Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed trial** 

Existing Ansible users can now start a free 90-day Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed cloud service trial. You can create single-task and multitask recommendations, generate playbooks, and view playbook explanations with a trial account.

To start your Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed trial, you need a trial or paid subscription to the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform; however, you do not need a trial or paid subscription to IBM watsonx Code Assistant. For more information, see [Starting a trial of Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/index#start-lightspeed-trial_lightspeed-user-guide) .

## 2.8. 20 June 2024




This release features the following enhancements:

-  **Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployment** 
    
    Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed is now available for on-premise deployments. This capability provides the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform customers more control over their data and supports compliance with enterprise security policies. For example, organizations in sensitive industries with data privacy or air-gapped requirements can use on-premise deployments of both Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed and IBM watsonx Code Assistant for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on Cloud Pak for Data. Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployments are supported on Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform version 2.4. For more information, see [Setting up Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployment](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/index#configuring-lightspeed-onpremise_set-up-lightspeed) .
    
    Note
    The following capabilities are not yet available on Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on-premise deployments:
    
    
    - Viewing telemetry data on the Admin dashboard
    - Generating playbooks and viewing playbook explanations
    
    
    
-  **Playbook generation and explanations** 
    
    Using the Ansible VS Code extension, you can create Ansible playbooks using a natural language interface in English. Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant reads the natural language prompts and generates an entire playbook recommendation based on your intent. You can also view the explanations for new or existing playbooks. The playbook explanations describe what the playbook or task within the playbook does and contextualize its impact. For more information, see [Creating playbooks and viewing playbook explanations](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/index#playbook-generation_developing-ansible-content) .
    
    


## 2.9. 7 March 2024




This release features the following enhancements:

-  **Ansible code bot General Availability** 
    
    Previously, Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed provided the Ansible code bot as a Technology Preview release. Now, the Ansible code bot is available as General Availability release along with an improved performance and an Ansible code bot dashboard.
    
    The dashboard displays a list of your repositories where the code bot is installed, the status of your repository scans, and indicates whether the scan schedule is not set, or is set to manual or scheduled scan. From the dashboard, you can start a manual scan, view the scan history, and view the repository. For more information, see [Installing and configuring the Ansible code bot](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/index#using-code-bot-for-suggestions_lightspeed-user-guide) .
    
    
-  **Ability to collect and manage the Admin dashboard telemetry** 
    
    Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed now collects Admin dashboard telemetry data that provides insight into how your organization users are using the Ansible Lightspeed service, and displays the metrics on the Admin dashboard. If you no longer want to collect and manage the Admin dashboard telemetry, you can disable it for your organization. For more information, see [Viewing and managing Admin dashboard telemetry](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/index#view-manage-admin-dashboard-telemetry_administering-ansible-lightspeed) .
    
    


## 2.10. 15 February 2024




This release features the following enhancements:

-  **Model customization** 
    
    Organization administrators can now create and use fine-tuned, custom models that are trained on your organization’s existing Ansible content. With this capability, you can tune the models to your organization’s automation patterns and improve the code recommendation experience.
    
    You can configure multiple custom models for your organization. For example, you can create a custom model for your corporate IT automation team and a different one for your engineering team’s infrastructure. You can also configure a custom model to make it available for all Ansible users or select Ansible users in your organization. For more information, see [Configuring custom models](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/index#configure-custom-models_administering-ansible-lightspeed) .
    
    
-  **Streamlined the setup process** 
    
    Previously, organization administrators had to assign seat licenses to users so that they could access Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. With the new subscription plans from IBM watsonx Code Assistant, organization administrators no longer need to manage access to Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed by assigning or removing seat licenses.
    
    


## 2.11. 25 October 2023




The following components are available for using Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed:

- Ansible Extension for VS Code v2.8.108
- Ansible code bot Technology Preview


This release includes the following features:

-  **Ansible-specific IBM watsonx Code Assistant models** 
    
    Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant uses Ansible-specific IBM watsonx Granite models unique to your organization, which are provided, managed, and maintained by IBM.
    
    
-  **Single tasks and multitask generation** 
    
    Using natural language prompts, you can generate single task or multiple task recommendations for Ansible task files and playbooks.
    
    
-  **Content source matching** 
    
    For each generated code recommendation, Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed lists content source matches, including details such as potential source, content author, and relevant licenses. You can use this data to gain insight into potential training data sources used to generate the code recommendations.
    
    
-  **Post-processing capabilities** 
    
    Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed offers post-processing capabilities that augment IBM watsonx Code Assistant and improve the quality and accuracy of code recommendations.
    
    
-  **Content modernization** 
    
    The Ansible code bot scans existing content collections, roles, and playbooks through Git repositories, and proactively creates pull requests whenever best practices or quality improvement recommendations are available. The bot automatically submits pull requests to the repository, which proactively alerts the repository owner to a recommended change to their content. Ansible code bot is available as a Technology Preview.
    
    



<span id="idm139828495435184"></span>
# Legal Notice

Copyright© 2025 Red Hat, Inc.
The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by Red Hat under a Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/) . In accordance with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version.
Red Hat, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Red Hat, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Shadowman logo, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, OpenShift, Fedora, the Infinity logo, and RHCE are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc., registered in the United States and other countries.
Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries.
Java® is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
XFS® is a trademark of Silicon Graphics International Corp. or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries.
MySQL® is a registered trademark of MySQL AB in the United States, the European Union and other countries.
Node.js® is an official trademark of Joyent. Red Hat is not formally related to or endorsed by the official Joyent Node.js open source or commercial project.
TheOpenStack® Word Mark and OpenStack logo are either registered trademarks/service marks or trademarks/service marks of the OpenStack Foundation, in the United States and other countries and are used with the OpenStack Foundation's permission. We are not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the OpenStack Foundation, or the OpenStack community.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.





