+++
title = "Release notes - Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6"
path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/release_notes/index"

[extra]
modified = "2025-10-02T18:33:22.000Z"
multi_page_path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/release_notes/index/"
name = "Release notes"
page_slug = "release_notes"
product = "Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform"
product_version = "2.6"
reference_url = "https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/release_notes/index"
type = "single-page"
+++


<span id="idm139941010333952"></span>
Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform2.6
## Learn about new features, changes, and known and fixed bugs


Red Hat Customer Content Services

 [Legal Notice](#idm139941017998560) 
 **Abstract** 

This guide provides a summary of new features, enhancements, and bug fix information for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.




---

# Providing feedback on Red Hat documentation




If you have a suggestion to improve this documentation, or find an error, you can contact technical support at [https://access.redhat.com](https://access.redhat.com) to open a request.

# Chapter 1. Overview of Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform




Ansible Automation Platform is a strategic automation platform that integrates comprehensive capabilities, a robust technology ecosystem, and flexible deployment options into a single solution. It allows customers to automate and orchestrate a series of workflows across domains for more efficient, resilient, and consistent IT operations at scale.

From the introduction of Ansible Automation Platform 2, our promise has been to deliver an automation platform experience that allows our customers to create the automation content they need with more efficiency, manage the resulting automated workflows more effectively, and scale those automated workflows with ease across domains and environments. We continue to strive to deliver on that promise with the release of Ansible Automation Platform 2.6.

 **Automate at scale on proven foundation** . Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 delivers new features, platform enhancements, and strategic integrations that will help you continue to build a resilient, trusted foundation for the next generation of IT operations.

-  **Unlock more value** with the new automation dashboard, which allows you to securely measure automation ROI, with customized tracking and reporting.
-  **Operate more efficiently** with the new Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant, which harnesses generative AI to provide on-demand support, for a more intuitive platform experience.
-  **Achieve new levels of scale** with the self-service automation portal, which enables platform admins to quickly and easily scale automation service delivery to new users and teams.


Because your team is not just preparing for the future, you are automating for it.

## 1.1. Platform services in 2.6




These are the major service versions in Ansible Automation Platform 2.6. For more current information, see the entire [Life Cycle](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/ansible-automation-platform) .

| Ansible-core version | Ansible Automation Platform UI version | Automation controller (automation execution) version | Automation hub (automation content) version | Event-Driven Ansible controller (automation decisions) version | Platform gateway version |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2.16 | 2.6.1 | 4.7.1 | 4.11.0 | 1.2.0 | 2.6.20251001 |


# Chapter 2. New features and enhancements




## 2.1. General availability of Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant




The Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant is now generally available on Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 on OpenShift Container Platform. It is an intuitive chat interface embedded within the Ansible Automation Platform, utilizing generative artificial intelligence (AI) to answer questions about the Ansible Automation Platform.

The chat experience in the Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant interacts with users in their natural language prompts in English, and uses large language models (LLMs) to generate quick, accurate, and personalized responses. These responses empower users to work more efficiently, thereby improving productivity and the overall quality of their work.

To access and install Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant, you will need the following: * Ansible Automation Platform {:PlatformVers} on OpenShift Container Platform * An LLM service that is hosted on either Red Hat Enterprise Linux AI or Red Hat OpenShift AI

For more information, see [Deploying the Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant on OpenShift Container Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/installing_on_openshift_container_platform/index#deploying-chatbot-operator) in Installing on OpenShift Container Platform.

## 2.2. General availability of Ansible self-service automation portal




Ansible self-service automation portal is now generally available as part of the Ansible Automation Platform subscription. The new self-service automation portal empowers platform admins to provide a streamlined “point-and-click” Ansible automation experience to a broader set of users within the organization. Users who are not Ansible experts now have a dedicated self-service portal from which they can launch a range of automation jobs.

- Installation: Deployment of self-service automation portal requires Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform using a Helm chart. A future deployment of self-service automation portal on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10 is planned for Technology Preview in a future asynchronous release of Ansible Automation Platform 2.6.
- Synchronoizes existing automation content: Extend the reach and impact of your automation job templates, while maintaining full control and compliance.
- Seamless Integration: Uses your existing Ansible Automation Platform configuration—same logins, same security controls, same automation logic.
- Simplified Interface: A distinct, user-friendly web interface designed for business users, not automation experts.
- Guided Workflows: Step-by-step forms that walk users through automation requests without technical complexity - automatically generated from your existing job templates.
- Smart Forms: Real-time field validation, conditional and dynamic forms, and dropdown fields for Ansible Automation Platform artifacts, such as Ansible Automation Platform inventories.


## 2.3. Technical Preview of Ansible Automation Dashboard




Automation Dashboard is now available in a Technical Preview State as part of the Ansible Automation Platform subscription. Automation dashboard is a utility you can connect to one or more Ansible Automation Platform deployments to visualize automation usage data, determine time savings, track ROI, and drive increased visibility into automation strategy, resource allocation, and prioritization of automation projects. Benefits include:

- Installation: Deployment of Automation Dashboard is via containerized installation only.
- Secure on-premise deployment: Simplified deployment as a self-contained, on-premise utility that runs on a dedicated RHEL 9 x86 and ARM host.
- Easy Integration: Integrates into Ansible Automation Platform 2.4, 2.5 and 2.6 instances with OAuth2 token for read-only access to pull data.
- Automated data sync: Once configured, the dashboard automatically syncs and visualizes data from connected Ansible Automation Platform instances.
- Flexible Reporting: Dashboard allows to generate and share customized PDF reports and export raw CSV data for flexible ingestion into BI tools.


For more information, see [Ansible automation dashboard](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/using_automation_dashboard/index) .

## 2.4. Configuration as Code




The [ansible.platform](https://console.redhat.com/ansible/automation-hub/repo/published/ansible/platform/) collection now provides unified, platform-wide Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) management across Ansible Automation Platform components. New or enhanced modules include `Organization` , `Team` , `User` , `Role definitions` , `Role Assignments` (team/user). Additionally:

- You can declare the RBAC state as code and apply idempotently across services.
- Ansible collections now use a standard global environment variable prefix across components. Automation controller, Automation hub, and Event-Driven Ansible all use a new standard of “AAP_” instead of "COMPONENT_". For example, `    aap_hostname` . See [the documentation](https://console.redhat.com/ansible/automation-hub/repo/published/ansible/platform/docs/) in Automation hub for more information.


## 2.5. Service accounts




- Service accounts, created in [console.redhat.com](https://console.redhat.com/) , can now be used to manage subscriptions in Ansible Automation Platform. Manifest files and basic authentication may still be used for this purpose as well.
- Service accounts are now required in order to send data to automation analytics.


## 2.6. Event-Driven Ansible (Automation decisions)




Event-Driven Ansible includes several key enhancements in the Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 release that improve performance, simplify operations, and expand the platform’s capabilities across security, networking, and event processing.

-  **External secret management** : Event-Driven Ansible now supports external secret management systems, achieving parity with Automation controller. This includes support for HashiCorp Vault, CyberArk, Microsoft Azure Key Vault, and AWS Secrets Manager.
-  **Editable project URLs** : You can now edit the source control URL for existing Event-Driven Ansible projects, providing greater flexibility to adapt to repository changes.
-  **Improved job auditing** : A new label is automatically added to jobs triggered by Event-Driven Ansible, along with support for custom labels. This allows for more efficient tracing and auditing of event-triggered automations.
-  **Kafka enhancements** : The Kafka source plugin now supports multiple topics and allows the use of regular expressions and wildcards. Additionally, it now supports GSSAPI for enhanced authentication.
-  **New event filter** : A new filter plugin, `    event_splitter` , is available to handle and process nested events more effectively.
-  **Rulebook concurrency key** : Rulebooks now support a concurrency key, enabling you to group events by resource to ensure they are processed sequentially.


## 2.7. Installation updates




### 2.7.1. Containerized installation




Updated system requirements for containerized installation of Ansible Automation Platform include:

- The Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.2 operating system requirement was updated to 9.4 or later minor versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9. Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10 system requirements are unchanged.
- PostgreSQL 15 16 and 17 are now supported for customer provided (external) databases.
    
    Note
    External databases using PostgreSQL 16 or 17 must rely on external backup and restore processes. Backup and restore functionality is dependent on utilities provided with PostgreSQL 15.
    
    
    
    


For more information see [System requirements](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/aap-containerized-installation#system-requirements) in _Containerized installation_ .

### 2.7.2. Operator installation




Updated system requirements for Ansible Automation Platform Operator on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform include: * The Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.2 operating system requirement was updated to 9.4 or later minor versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9. Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10 system requirements are unchanged. * PostgreSQL 16 and 17 are now supported for customer-provided (external) databases.

Note
External databases using PostgreSQL 16 or 17 must rely on external backup and restore processes. Backup and restore functionality is dependent on utilities provided with PostgreSQL 15.



For more information about the Ansible Automation Platform Operator system requirements, see [Operator topologies](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/tested_deployment_models/ocp-topologies) in _Tested deployment models_ .

### 2.7.3. RPM installation




Updated system requirements for RPM installation of Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 include:

- Ansible Automation Platform RPM installer was deprecated in 2.5 and will be removed in Ansible Automation Platform 2.7. The RPM installer will be supported for RHEL 9 during the lifecycle of Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 to support migrations to existing supported topologies. See the [support matrix](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-support-matrix) for more information on upgrade and migration paths.
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.2 operating system requirement was updated to 9.4 or later minor versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9. Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 is no longer supported.
- Red Hat Enterprise Linux 10 is not supported for RPM installations. See [support matrix](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-support-matrix) for more information on supported upgrade and migration paths.
- PostgreSQL 16 and 17 are now supported for customer-provided (external) databases.
    
    Note
    External databases using PostgreSQL 16 or 17 must rely on external backup and restore processes. Backup and restore functionality is dependent on utilities provided with PostgreSQL 15.
    
    
    
    


For more information, see [System requirements](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/platform-system-requirements) in _RPM installation_ .

## 2.8. Upgrade paths




The following table outlines the supported upgrade paths for Ansible Automation Platform 2.6.

Note
The RPM-based upgrade paths are deprecated and will be removed in Ansible Automation Platform 2.7.



| Starting Deployment | Upgrade Deployment |
| --- | --- |
| 2.4 RPM single automation controller node | 2.6 RPM growth |
| 2.4 RPM single node automation controller and automation hub | 2.6 RPM growth |
| 2.4 RPM multi node automation controller | 2.6 RPM enterprise |
| 2.4 RPM multi node automation controller and automation hub | 2.6 RPM enterprise |
| 2.5 RPM growth | 2.6 RPM growth |
| 2.5 RPM enterprise | 2.6 RPM enterprise |
| 2.5 Container growth | 2.6 Container growth |
| 2.5 Container enterprise | 2.6 Container enterprise |
| 2.4 Operator single automation controller node | 2.6 Operator growth |
| 2.4 Operator single node automation controller and automation hub | 2.6 Operator growth |
| 2.4 Operator multi node automation controller | 2.6 Operator enterprise |
| 2.4 Operator multi node automation controller and automation hub | 2.6 Operator enterprise |
| 2.5 Operator growth | 2.6 Operator growth |
| 2.5 Operator enterprise | 2.6 Operator enterprise |


 **Additional resources** * [Support matrix for upgrade scenarios](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-support-matrix) * [Infrastructure changes by deployment type](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-infrastructure-changes) * [RPM upgrade and migration](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/rpm_upgrade_and_migration/index) * [Updating containerized Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/containerized_installation/aap-containerized-installation#updating-containerized-ansible-automation-platform) * [Upgrading Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform Operator on Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html-single/installing_on_openshift_container_platform/index#operator-upgrade_licensing-gw) 

## 2.9. Migration paths




The following table outlines the supported migration paths for Ansible Automation Platform 2.6. Migration involves transitioning between deployment types, such as from an RPM to a containerized installation. This process is exclusively supported between identical versions (for example, 2.6 to 2.6).

| Source environment | Target environment |
| --- | --- |
| RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform | Container-based Ansible Automation Platform |
| RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform | OpenShift Container Platform |
| RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform | Managed Ansible Automation Platform |
| Container-based Ansible Automation Platform | OpenShift Container Platform |
| Container-based Ansible Automation Platform | Managed Ansible Automation Platform |


 **Additional resources** * [Ansible Automation Platform migration](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html-single/ansible_automation_platform_migration/index) 

## 2.10. Overview of upgrade improvements




Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 includes changes that significantly improve the upgrade experience when moving from Ansible Automation Platform 2.4 to 2.6.

Note
You must be on the latest version of 2.4 or 2.5 before you upgrade to 2.6.



| Scenario | Changes | Additional information |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Upgrading from 2.5 to 2.6 | Upgrading from 2.5 to 2.6 does not involve changes to the platform infrastructure requirements, architecture, or services. The improvements described in the 2.4 to 2.6 upgrade path are also present in the 2.5 to 2.6 upgrade path; however, the platform gateway service is already in place in 2.5. + If you upgraded from 2.4 to 2.5, you must migrate your authentication methods and users before upgrading to 2.6 as that legacy authenticator functionality was removed. + Any users that were created during the 2.4 to 2.5 upgrade that were not fully migrated will be removed from the system when upgrading to 2.6. The users that have previously merged their user records while on 2.5 will remain to function as is for 2.6. + Any 2.4 Controller users that have not successfully logged into 2.5 since upgrading from 2.4, will be unable to log into platform-gateway after a 2.6 upgrade. The user will be backwards compatible for direct Automation Execution access but unable to access the full platform. Please ensure all users planning to leverage 2.6 have successfully logged into 2.5 prior to upgrading. + [NOTE] ==== Upgrades from the latest 2.5 version to 2.6 are supported with all deployment types: RPM, containerized, and OpenShift Container Platform deployments. ==== + | See the upgrade document for your deployment type: * [Containerized](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-infrastructure-changes#container_based_deployments) * [RPM](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-infrastructure-changes#rpm_based_deployments) * [OpenShift Container Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-infrastructure-changes#operator_based_deployments) |
| Upgrading from 2.4 to 2.6 | Ansible Automation Platform supports upgrading directly from the latest 2.4 version to 2.6. Directly upgrading to 2.6 is the recommended upgrade path from 2.4, as a number of improvements in 2.6 simplify and improve the upgrade experience. + [NOTE] ==== You can upgrade directly from the latest 2.4 version to 2.6 with RPM and OpenShift Container Platform deployments. However, upgrading Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 or from the 2.4 containerized deployment is not supported, as both features were Tech Preview in 2.4. ==== | See the upgrade document for your deployment type: * [RPM](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-support-matrix#upgrade-scenarios-rpm) * [OpenShift Container Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-support-matrix#upgrade-scenarios-openshift) |
| Upgrading from 2.4 to 2.6 | Ansible Automation Platform RPM deployments require additional infrastructure compared with 2.4, due to the addition of the platform gateway service. Infrastructure needs vary depending on factors such as whether you implement a growth or an enterprise deployment. + [NOTE] ==== Additional infrastructure requirements apply only when upgrading RPM deployments. ==== | See [Infrastructure changes](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-infrastructure-changes) for details about infrastructure and inventory file changes in various upgrade scenarios. |
| Upgrading from 2.4 to 2.6 | Enterprise authentication configuration and mappings (for example, SAML, LDAP, OIDC) move from automation controller 2.4 to platform gateway 2.6 as part of the upgrade process. You do not need to manually reconfigure these authentication methods after you upgrade.

[NOTE] ==== Authentication upgrade improvements apply to RPM and OpenShift Container Platform deployments. Upgrades from the 2.4 containerized deployment Tech Preview release are not supported. Additionally, upgrading Event-Driven Ansible 2.4 is not supported. ==== | See [Access management and authentication](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/access_management_and_authentication/index) for information about authentication options in general. |
| Upgrading from 2.4 to 2.6 | All automation controller Identity Access Management (IAM) data moves from automation controller 2.4 to the platform gateway in 2.6 as part of the upgrade process. With automation controller 2.4 as the default source of IAM data for the platform gateway in 2.6, users retain their memberships and are assigned appropriate platform-level roles in 2.6. + As part of the upgrade process: * Users, teams, organizations, their memberships, and common roles in 2.4 move from automation controller 2.4 to the platform gateway in 2.6. * Administrators in automation controller 2.4 become platform gateway administrators in 2.6. * Controller admins in 2.4 become platform gateway admins in 2.6. + The more organizations, teams, and users being migrated during an upgrade, the longer the upgrade takes. As an example, upgrading and migrating 4,000 users, 400 teams, and 40 organizations may take close to two hours. + [NOTE] ==== Identity access management changes apply to RPM and OpenShift Container Platform deployments. Upgrades from the 2.4 containerized deployment Tech Preview release are not supported. ==== | See [Data movement during upgrade](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-data-movement) for more information. |
| Upgrading from 2.4 to 2.6 | Some APIs are being deprecated in 2.6. | See [API changes](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/planning_your_upgrade/index#upgrade-api-changes) for more information. |


## 2.11. Platform UI




Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 was delivered with the goal to simplify the UI, improve the relationship between user interface elements, and maintain the association between users, organizations, teams, and roles.

Within the Platform UI, the role based access controls (RBAC) have been centralized to give administrators control of users across the entire platform. The centralized RBAC has introduced additional APIs and expanded the scope of those APIs to allow the assignment of roles across any of the platform resources. The details of these changes are reflected within the [API changes](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/planning_your_upgrade/index#upgrade-api-changes) .

The UI has also been updated to the latest version of Patternfly, which brings significant updates and refinements aiming to enhance user experience, performance, and developer efficiency.

# Chapter 3. Technology preview




## 3.1. Technology Preview




### 3.1.1. Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant integration with MCP




Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant integration with the Model Context Protocol (MCP) server is now available as a Technology Preview release. This integration enhances the user experience by delivering relevant, dynamically sourced data results to your queries. For information about how to access and use the Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant, see [Deploying the Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant on OpenShift Container Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/installing_on_openshift_container_platform/deploying-chatbot-operator) .

### 3.1.2. ansible-core 2.19




Note
Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 does not include ansible-core 2.19 by default, but it is compatible with 2.19. See [Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform Life Cycle](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/ansible-automation-platform) for more information about compatibility.



This [technical preview](https://access.redhat.com/articles/7128367) includes an overhaul of the templating system and a new feature labeled Data Tagging. These changes enable reporting of numerous problematic behaviors that went undetected in previous releases, with wide-ranging positive effects on security, performance, and user experience.

Backward compatibility has been preserved where practical, but some breaking changes were necessary. This guide describes some common problem scenarios with example content, error messages, and suggested solutions.

We recommend you test your playbooks and roles in a staging environment with this release to determine where you may need to make changes.

For further information see the [Ansible Porting Guide](https://ansible.readthedocs.io/projects/ansible-core/devel/porting_guides/porting_guide_core_2.19.html#id3) .

# Chapter 4. Deprecated features




Deprecated functionality is still included in Ansible Automation Platform and continues to be supported during this version’s support cycle. However, the functionality will be removed in a future release of Ansible Automation Platform and is not recommended for new deployments.

The following table provides information about features that were deprecated in Ansible Automation Platform 2.5:

| Component | Feature |
| --- | --- |
| Access to service APIs for automation controller,    
automation hub,    
and Event-Driven Ansible | With the addition of platform gateway, a number of service-specific API endpoints are deprecated because their functionality will be removed or superseded with other capabilities in a future release.

Ansible Automation Platform 2.5 and 2.6 expose API access to individual services (automation controller, private automation hub, Event-Driven Ansible) to maintain compatibility with existing REST API integrations. This access will be removed in a future release.

For detailed information, see [API changes](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-api-changes) in _Planning your upgrade_ . |
| Installer | The Ansible Automation Platform installer using Red Hat Enterprise Linux RPMs was deprecated (announced) in 2.5 and will be removed in Ansible Automation Platform 2.7.

The RPM installer will be supported for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 during the lifecycle of Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 to support migrations to existing supported topologies. Users are encouraged to migrate to the containerized topology on Red Hat Enterprise Linux or to the OpenShift Container Platform Operator installation method. See the [support matrix](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_upgrade/upgrade-support-matrix) for more information on upgrade and migration paths. |
| Ansible-core | ```
uri module:
    - Using 'yes' or 'no' for 'follow_redirects' parameter is deprecated.
yum_repository:
    - deprecated parameters:
        - 'keepcache'
        - 'async'
        - "deltarpm_metadata_percentage"
        - "gpgcakey"
        - "http_caching"
        - "keepalive"
        - "metadata_expire_filter"
        - "mirrorlist_expire"
        - "protect"
        - "ssl_check_cert_permissions"
        - "ui_repoid_vars"`
url lookup:
    - Using `yes` or `no` for `follow_redirects` parameter is deprecated.
``` |
| Execution environment | Removing `cisco.asa` from ee-supported as it is being deprecated

Removing `ibm.qradar` from ee-supported as it is being deprecated |
| Certified Collections | An `ansible.platform` collection is available as the preferred collection to replace the service-specific `ansible.controller` , `ansible.hub` , and `ansible.eda` collections. These service-specific collections will be replaced by `ansible.platform` after 2.6. |
| Ansible code bot code bot | The code bot (as described in the [Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed with IBM watsonx Code Assistant](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant/2.x_latest/html-single/red_hat_ansible_lightspeed_with_ibm_watsonx_code_assistant_user_guide/index#using-code-bot-for-suggestions_lightspeed-user-guide) user guide) is being deprecated, and will be retired on December 31, 2025. |
| Ansible Content | Deprecation of the Notification Service for ServiceNow, which will not be supported on the ServiceNow Zurich and later releases. Support will end when the Yokohama release is end-of-life. |


# Chapter 5. Removed features




Removed features are those that were deprecated in earlier releases. They are now removed from the Ansible Automation Platform 2.5, and will no longer be supported.

| Component | Feature |
| --- | --- |
| Event-Driven Ansible controller | Removal of `max_running_activations setting in eda-controller` |
| Platform gateway | Legacy Authenticators that were added during an upgrade from 2.4 to 2.5 will no longer be present |


# Chapter 6. Changed features




Changed features are not deprecated and will continue to be supported until further notice.

The following table provides information about features that are changed in Ansible Automation Platform 2.6:

| Component | Feature |
| --- | --- |
| Platform gateway | The determination for matching to existing user records upon login has changed from previous versions. The new process leverages email address as the primary matching criteria for existing user accounts across multiple authentication methods. See [Access Management](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/access_management_and_authentication/index) for more details. Within 2.5, each authentication method would result in a user record being created regardless of the email matching from the different IdP sources. |
| Platform-operator,    
Ansible Automation Platform Hub Operator | Added `postgres_extra_settings` to Ansible Automation Platform operators to apply PostgreSQL configuration file level changes to managed Postgres. |
| Platform-operator,    
Event-Driven Ansible | Added `postgres_extra_settings` to Ansible Automation Platform operators to apply PostgreSQL configuration file level changes to managed Postgres. |
| Platform-operator,    
gateway-operator | Added `postgres_extra_settings` to Ansible Automation Platform operators to apply PostgreSQL configuration file level changes to managed Postgres. |


# Chapter 7. Known issues




This section provides information about known issues in Ansible Automation Platform 2.6.

- For role based authentication mappings, the role list includes all roles within the platform. Only the role assignments of Org Admin, Org Member, Team Admin, Team Member, and Platform Auditor are supported at this time. The list will be limited to only those that can be applied at a platform level in a subsequent release.
- If you have an existing deployment of Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed on Ansible Automation Platform 2.5, upgrading to Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 will cause your Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed deployment to fail. To avoid this failure, do not upgrade to Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 until a forthcoming patch is released on October 22, 2025. However, new deployments of Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed will work correctly on Ansible Automation Platform 2.6.(AAP-54064)


# Chapter 8. Fixed issues




This section provides information about fixed issues in Ansible Automation Platform 2.6.

## 8.1. Ansible Automation Platform




Note
Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 also includes the fixes from the latest 2.5 patch release. For more information see [Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/release_notes/patch_releases#aap-25-20250923) patch release September 23, 2025.



Ansible Automation Platform

- The `    SOCIAL_AUTH_USERNAME_IS_FULL_EMAIL` configuration parameter now functions as expected, allowing social auth logins to set the platform gateway username to the user’s email when enabled.(AAP-49736)


RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform

- Fixed an issue where installer managed CA certificates were discovered but not used by the installer.(AAP-53335)



<span id="idm139941017998560"></span>
# Legal Notice

Copyright© 2025 Red Hat, Inc.
The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by Red Hat under a Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/) . In accordance with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version.
Red Hat, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Red Hat, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Shadowman logo, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, OpenShift, Fedora, the Infinity logo, and RHCE are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc., registered in the United States and other countries.
Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries.
Java® is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
XFS® is a trademark of Silicon Graphics International Corp. or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries.
MySQL® is a registered trademark of MySQL AB in the United States, the European Union and other countries.
Node.js® is an official trademark of Joyent. Red Hat is not formally related to or endorsed by the official Joyent Node.js open source or commercial project.
TheOpenStack® Word Mark and OpenStack logo are either registered trademarks/service marks or trademarks/service marks of the OpenStack Foundation, in the United States and other countries and are used with the OpenStack Foundation's permission. We are not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the OpenStack Foundation, or the OpenStack community.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.





