+++
path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html-single/backup_and_recovery_for_operator_environments/index"
title = "Backup and recovery for operator environments - Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.5"

[extra]
modified = "2025-06-12T17:32:11.000Z"
multi_page_path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/backup_and_recovery_for_operator_environments/index/"
name = "Backup and recovery for operator environments"
page_slug = "backup_and_recovery_for_operator_environments"
product = "Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform"
product_version = "2.5"
reference_url = "https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html-single/backup_and_recovery_for_operator_environments/index"
type = "single-page"
+++


<span id="idm140609567174480"></span>
Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform2.5
## Safeguard against data loss with backup and recovery of Ansible Automation Platform operator on OpenShift Container Platform


Red Hat Customer Content Services

 [Legal Notice](#idm140609565006768) 
 **Abstract** 

This guide provides procedures and reference information to backup and recover installations of the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform operator on OpenShift Container Platform.




---

# Preface




Thank you for your interest in Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform. Ansible Automation Platform is a commercial offering that helps teams manage complex multi-tier deployments by adding control, knowledge, and delegation to Ansible-powered environments.

Use the procedures in this guide to create backup resources that can be used for recovering your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform deployment in the event of a failure.

# Providing feedback on Red Hat documentation




If you have a suggestion to improve this documentation, or find an error, you can contact technical support at [https://access.redhat.com](https://access.redhat.com) to open a request.

# Chapter 1. Backup and recovery of Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform




To safeguard against unexpected data loss and application errors, it is critical that you perform periodic backups of your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform deployment. In addition to data loss prevention, backups allow you to fall back to a different deployment state.

## 1.1. About backup and recovery




Red Hat recommends backing up deployments of Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform in your Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform environment to prevent data loss.

A backup resource of your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform deployment includes the following:

- Custom deployment of specific values in the `    spec` section of the Ansible Automation Platform custom resource object.
- Back up of the `    postgresql` database.
-  `    secret_key` , `    admin_password` , and `    broadcast_websocket` secrets.
- Database configuration.


Note
Be sure to secure your backup resources because they can include sensitive information.



### 1.1.1. Backup recommendations




Recovering from data loss requires that you plan for and create backup resources of your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform deployments on a regular basis. At a minimum, Red Hat recommends backing up deployments of Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform under the following circumstances:

- Before upgrading your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform deployments.
- Before upgrading your OpenShift cluster.
- Once per week. This is particularly important if your environment is configured for automatic upgrades.


# Chapter 2. Creating Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform backup resources




Backing up your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform deployment involves creating backup resources for your deployed instances. Use the following procedures to create backup resources for your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform deployment. We recommend taking backups before upgrading the Ansible Automation Platform Operator. Take a backup regularly in case you want to restore the platform to a previous state.

## 2.1. Backing up your Ansible Automation Platform deployment




Regularly backing up your **Ansible Automation Platform** deployment is vital to protect against unexpected data loss and application errors. **Ansible Automation Platform** hosts any enabled components (such as, automation controller, automation hub, and Event-Driven Ansible), when you back up **Ansible Automation Platform** the operator will also back up these components.

 **Prerequisites** 

- You must be authenticated on OpenShift cluster.
- You have installed Ansible Automation Platform Operator on the cluster.
- You have deployed a **Ansible Automation Platform** instance using the Ansible Automation Platform Operator.


 **Procedure** 

1. Log in to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
1. Navigate toOperators→Installed Operators.
1. Select your Ansible Automation Platform Operator deployment.
1. Go to your **All Instances** tab, and clickCreate New.
1. Select **Ansible Automation Platform Backup** from the list.
    
    Note
    When creating the **Ansible Automation Platform Backup** resource it also creates backup resources for each of the nested components that are enabled.
    
    
    
    
1. In the **Name** field, enter a name for the backup.
1. In the **Deployment name** field, enter the name of the deployed Ansible Automation Platform instance being backed up. For example if your Ansible Automation Platform deployment must be backed up and the deployment name is aap, enter 'aap' in the **Deployment name** field.
1. ClickCreate.


This results in an **AnsibleAutomationPlatformBackup** resource. The the resource YAML is similar to the following:

```
apiVersion: aap.ansible.com/v1alpha1
kind: AnsibleAutomationPlatformBackup
metadata:
  name: backup
  namespace: aap
spec:
  no_log: true
  deployment_name: aap
```

Note
Ansible Automation Platform Operator creates a PersistentVolumeClaim (PVC) for your Ansible Automation Platform Backup automatically. You can use your own pre-created PVC by using the `backup_pvc` spec and specifying your PVC.



 **Verification** 

To verify that your backup was successful you can:


1. Log in to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
1. Navigate toOperators→Installed Operators.
1. Select your Ansible Automation Platform Operator deployment.
1. Click **All Instances** .


The **All Instances** page displays the main backup and the backups for each component with the name you specified when creating your backup resource. The status for the following instances must be either **Running** or **Successful** :

- AnsibleAutomationPlatformBackup
- AutomationControllerBackup
- EDABackup
- AutomationHubBackup


# Chapter 3. Recovering a Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform deployment




If you lose information on your system or experience issues with an upgrade, you can use the backup resources of your deployment instances. Use the following procedures to recover your Ansible Automation Platform deployment files.

## 3.1. Recovering your Ansible Automation Platform deployment




 **Ansible Automation Platform** manages any enabled components (such as, automation controller, automation hub, and Event-Driven Ansible), when you recover **Ansible Automation Platform** you also restore these components.

In previous versions of the Ansible Automation Platform Operator, it was necessary to create a restore object for each component of the platform. Now, you create a single **AnsibleAutomationPlatformRestore** resource, which creates and manages the other restore objects:

- AutomationControllerRestore
- AutomationHubRestore
- EDARestore


 **Prerequisites** 

- You must be authenticated with an OpenShift cluster.
- You have installed the Ansible Automation Platform Operator on the cluster.
- The **AnsibleAutomationPlatformBackups** deployment is available in your cluster.


 **Procedure** 

1. Log in to Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform.
1. Navigate toOperators→Installed Operators.
1. Select your Ansible Automation Platform Operator deployment.
1. Go to your **All Instances** tab, and clickCreate New.
1. Select **Ansible Automation Platform Restore** from the list.
1. For **Name** enter the name for the recovery deployment.
1. For **New Ansible Automation Platform Name** enter the new name for your Ansible Automation Platform instance.
1.  **Backup Source** defaults to **CR** .
1. For **Backup name** enter the name your chose when creating the backup.
1. ClickCreate.


Your backups starts restoring under the **AnsibleAutomationPlatformRestores** tab.

Note
The recovery is not complete until all the resources are successfully restored. Depending on the size of your database this this can take some time.



 **Verification** 

To verify that your recovery was successful you can:


1. Go toWorkloads→Pods.
1. Confirm that all pods are in a **Running** or **Completed** state.


# Chapter 4. Troubleshooting




Use this information to diagnose and resolve issues during backup and recovery.

## 4.1. Automation controller custom resource has the same name as an existing deployment




The name specified for the new AutomationController custom resource must not match an existing deployment or the recovery process will fail.

If your AutomationController customer resource matches an existing deployment, perform the following steps to resolve the issue.

 **Procedure** 

1. Delete the existing AutomationController and the associated postgres PVC:
    
    
    ```
    oc delete automationcontroller &lt;YOUR_DEPLOYMENT_NAME&gt; -n &lt;YOUR_NAMESPACE&gt;        oc delete pvc postgres-13-&lt;YOUR_DEPLOYMENT_NAME&gt;-13-0 -n &lt;YOUR_NAMESPACE&gt;
    ```
    
    
1. Use AutomationControllerRestore with the same deployment_name in it:
    
    
    ```
    oc apply -f restore.yaml
    ```
    
    



<span id="idm140609565006768"></span>
# Legal Notice

Copyright© 2025 Red Hat, Inc.
The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by Red Hat under a Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/) . In accordance with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version.
Red Hat, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Red Hat, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Shadowman logo, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, OpenShift, Fedora, the Infinity logo, and RHCE are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc., registered in the United States and other countries.
Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries.
Java® is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
XFS® is a trademark of Silicon Graphics International Corp. or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries.
MySQL® is a registered trademark of MySQL AB in the United States, the European Union and other countries.
Node.js® is an official trademark of Joyent. Red Hat is not formally related to or endorsed by the official Joyent Node.js open source or commercial project.
TheOpenStack® Word Mark and OpenStack logo are either registered trademarks/service marks or trademarks/service marks of the OpenStack Foundation, in the United States and other countries and are used with the OpenStack Foundation's permission. We are not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the OpenStack Foundation, or the OpenStack community.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.





