# 2. Hardening Ansible Automation Platform
## 2.1. Planning considerations
### 2.1.2. DNS, NTP, and service planning




When installing Ansible Automation Platform, DNS and NTP configurations are crucial for a successful deployment and proper operation.

#### 2.1.2.1. DNS




When installing Ansible Automation Platform, the installation program script checks that certain infrastructure servers are defined with a _Fully Qualified Domain Name_ (FQDN) in the installation program inventory. This guide recommends that all Ansible Automation Platform infrastructure nodes have a valid FQDN defined in DNS which resolves to a routable IP address, and that these FQDNs be used in the installation program inventory file.

#### 2.1.2.2. DNS and load balancing




When using a load balancer with Ansible Automation Platform as described in the deployment topology, an additional FQDN is needed for the load-balancer. For example, an FQDN such as `aap.example.com` might be used for the load balancer which in turn directs traffic to each of the platform gateway components defined in the installation inventory.

#### 2.1.2.3. NTP




Configure each server in the Ansible Automation Platform infrastructure to synchronize time with an _Network Time Protocol_ (NTP) pool or your organization’s NTP service. This ensures that logging and auditing events generated by Ansible Automation Platform have an accurate timestamp, and that any scheduled jobs running from the automation controller run at the correct time. This also enables communication between the systems within Ansible Automation Platform to not reject messages based on timeouts.

For information on configuring the chrony service for NTP synchronization, see [Using Chrony](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/configuring_basic_system_settings/configuring-time-synchronization_configuring-basic-system-settings#using-chrony_configuring-time-synchronization) in the Red Hat Enterprise Linux documentation.

