+++
title = "RPM installation - Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6"
template = "docs/title.html"
path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/rpm_installation/index"

[extra]
breadcrumbs = [["/", "Home"], ["/products", "Product Documentation"], ["/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6", "Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform"], ["/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6", "2.6"]]
category = "Install"
category_description = ""
document_kind = "documentation"
html = "data/docs_assets_pv1/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/rpm_installation/single-page/8bb7e64d9f9e5907d19f7fb1a403c680.html"
last_crumb = "RPM installation"
modified = "2026-04-09T12:20:11.000Z"
multi_page_path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/index/"
name = "RPM installation"
oversized = "false"
page_slug = "rpm_installation"
portal_content_subtype = "title"
product = "Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform"
product_slug = "red_hat_ansible_automation_platform"
product_version = "2.6"
reference_url = "https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/rpm_installation/index"
solr_index = "true"
toc = "data/docs_assets_pv1/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/rpm_installation/toc/23498ea79e9b2795ddc8d23ee2a34fd3.json"
type = "single-page"
+++

Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6

## Install the RPM version of Ansible Automation Platform

Red Hat Customer Content Services

[Legal Notice](#idm140685019816448)

**Abstract**

This guide shows you how to install Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform based on supported installation scenarios.

Note

The Ansible Automation Platform RPM installer was deprecated in 2.5 and will be removed in Ansible Automation Platform 2.7. The RPM installer will be supported for RHEL 9 during the lifecycle of Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 to support migrations to existing supported topologies. For more information on upgrade and migration paths, see the [Support matrix for upgrade scenarios](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/planning_your_upgrade/index#upgrade-support-matrix).

---

# Preface

Thank you for your interest in Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform. Ansible Automation Platform is a commercial offering that helps teams manage complex multi-tier deployments by adding control, knowledge, and delegation to Ansible-powered environments.

This guide helps you to understand the installation requirements and processes behind installing Ansible Automation Platform. This document has been updated to include information for the latest release of Ansible Automation Platform.

Note

The Ansible Automation Platform RPM installer was deprecated in 2.5 and will be removed in Ansible Automation Platform 2.7. The RPM installer will be supported for RHEL 9 during the lifecycle of Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 to support migrations to existing supported topologies. For more information on upgrade and migration paths, see the [Support matrix for upgrade scenarios](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/planning_your_upgrade/index#upgrade-support-matrix).

# Providing feedback on Red Hat documentation

If you have a suggestion to improve this documentation, or find an error, you can contact technical support at <https://access.redhat.com> to open a request.

# Chapter 1. Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installation overview

The Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installation program offers you flexibility, allowing you to install Ansible Automation Platform by using several supported installation scenarios.

## 1.1. Prerequisites

Prerequisites define the software, accounts, and system configuration required to successfully install Ansible Automation Platform. Meeting these pre-installation requirements ensures system compatibility, prevents common errors (such as those caused by out-of-date RHEL nodes), and verifies you have access to the necessary installation files.

- You chose and obtained a platform installer from the [Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform Product Software](https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/480/ver=2.6/rhel---9/2.6/x86_64/product-software).
- You are installing on a machine that meets base system requirements.
- You have updated all of the packages to the recent version of your RHEL nodes.

Warning

To prevent errors, upgrade your RHEL nodes fully before installing Ansible Automation Platform.

- You have created a Red Hat Registry Service Account, by using the instructions in [Creating Registry Service Accounts](https://access.redhat.com/RegistryAuthentication#creating-registry-service-accounts-6).

**Additional resources**

- [System requirements](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/planning_your_installation/platform-system-requirements)
- [Planning your installation](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation)
- [Tested deployment models](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/tested_deployment_models)

## 1.2. Managing Ansible Automation Platform subscriptions, updates, and support

Ansible is an open source software project and is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3, as described in the [Ansible Source Code](https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/COPYING).

You must have valid subscriptions attached before installing Ansible Automation Platform.

### 1.2.1. Trial and evaluation

You need a subscription to run Ansible Automation Platform. You can start by signing up for a free trial subscription.

- Trial subscriptions for Ansible Automation Platform are available at the [Red Hat product trial center](https://www.redhat.com/en/products/trials?products=ansible).
- Support is not included in a trial subscription or during an evaluation of the Ansible Automation Platform.

### 1.2.2. Node counting in subscriptions

The Ansible Automation Platform subscription defines the number of Managed Nodes that can be managed as part of your subscription.

For more information about managed node requirements for subscriptions, see [How are "managed nodes" defined as part of the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform offering](https://access.redhat.com/articles/3331481).

Note

Ansible does not recycle node counts or reset automated hosts.

### 1.2.3. Subscription Types

Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform is provided at various levels of support and number of machines as an annual subscription.

- **Standard:**


  - Manage any size environment
  - Enterprise 8x5 support and SLA
  - Maintenance and upgrades included
  - Review the SLA at [Product Support Terms of Service](https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/production/sla)
  - Review the [Red Hat Support Severity Level Definitions](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/severity)

- **Premium:**


  - Manage any size environment, including mission-critical environments
  - Premium 24x7 support and SLA
  - Maintenance and upgrades included
  - Review the SLA at [Product Support Terms of Service](https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/production/sla)
  - Review the [Red Hat Support Severity Level Definitions](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/severity)

All subscription levels include regular updates and releases of automation controller, Ansible, and any other components of the Ansible Automation Platform.

For more information, contact Ansible through the [Red Hat Customer Portal](https://access.redhat.com/) or at the [Ansible site](http://www.ansible.com/contact-us/).

### 1.2.4. Attaching your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform subscription

You **must** have valid subscriptions on all nodes before installing Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.

Note

Simple Content Access (SCA) is now the default subscription method for all Red Hat accounts. With SCA, you must register your systems to Red Hat Subscription Management (RHSM) or Satellite to access content. Traditional pool-based subscription attachment commands (such as `subscription-manager attach --pool` or `subscription-manager attach --auto`) are no longer required. For more information, see [Simple Content Access](https://access.redhat.com/articles/simple-content-access).

**Procedure**

1. Register your system with Red Hat Subscription Management:

    $ sudo subscription-manager register --username <$INSERT_USERNAME_HERE> --password <$INSERT_PASSWORD_HERE>

    With Simple Content Access (SCA), registration is the only step required to access Ansible Automation Platform content.

  
  Note
      For accounts still using legacy subscription pools, you might have to manually attach subscriptions using the commands shown in the troubleshooting section.

**Verification**

1. Refresh the subscription information on your system:

    $ sudo subscription-manager refresh

2. Verify your registration:

    $ sudo subscription-manager identity

    This command displays your system identity, name, organization name, and organization ID, confirming successful registration.

**Troubleshooting**

- For legacy accounts not using SCA, you might have to manually attach subscriptions:

    $ sudo subscription-manager list --available --all | grep -A 30 "Ansible Automation Platform"

    This command displays the subscription details including the Pool ID. Look for the `Pool ID:` line in the output.

    Once you have identified the correct Pool ID, attach the subscription:

    $ sudo subscription-manager attach --pool=<pool_id>

  
  Note
      Do not use MCT4022 as a `pool_id` as it can cause subscription attachment to fail.

- For legacy accounts not using SCA, if you are unable to locate certain packages that came bundled with the Ansible Automation Platform installer, or if you are seeing a `Repositories disabled by configuration` message, use the following steps to identify and enable the required repository:


  1. List available repositories:

    $ sudo subscription-manager repos --list | grep -i ansible-automation-platform

  2. Identify the repository name that matches your RHEL version, Ansible Automation Platform version, and architecture (for example, `ansible-automation-platform-2.6-for-rhel-9-x86_64-rpms`).

  3. Enable the repository:

    $ sudo subscription-manager repos --enable <repository_name>

### 1.2.5. Obtaining a manifest file

You can obtain a subscription manifest in the [Subscription Allocations](https://access.redhat.com/management/subscription_allocations/) section of Red Hat Subscription Management.

After you obtain a subscription allocation, you can download its manifest file and upload it to activate Ansible Automation Platform.

To begin, log in to the [Red Hat Customer Portal](https://access.redhat.com/) by using your administrator user account and follow the procedures listed.

#### 1.2.5.1. Create a subscription allocation

With a new subscription allocation you can set aside subscriptions and entitlements for a system that is currently offline or air-gapped. This is necessary before you download its manifest and upload it to Ansible Automation Platform.

**Procedure**

1. From the [Subscription Allocations](https://access.redhat.com/management/subscription_allocations/) page, click New Subscription Allocation.
2. Enter a name for the allocation so that you can find it later.
3. Select **Type: Satellite 6.16** as the management application.
4. Click Create.

#### 1.2.5.2. Adding subscriptions to a subscription allocation

After you create an allocation, you can add the subscriptions you need for Ansible Automation Platform to run properly. This is necessary before you download the manifest and add it to Ansible Automation Platform.

**Procedure**

1. From the [Subscription Allocations](https://access.redhat.com/management/subscription_allocations/) page, click the name of the **Subscription Allocation** to which you want to add a subscription.
2. Click the **Subscriptions** tab.
3. Click Add Subscriptions.
4. Enter the number of Ansible Automation Platform Entitlements you plan to add.
5. Click Submit.

#### 1.2.5.3. Downloading a manifest file

After you create an allocation with the appropriate subscriptions on it, you can download the manifest file from Red Hat Subscription Management.

**Procedure**

1. From the [Subscription Allocations](https://access.redhat.com/management/subscription_allocations/) page, click the name of the **Subscription Allocation** to which you want to generate a manifest.

2. Click the **Subscriptions** tab.

3. Click Export Manifest to download the manifest file.

    This downloads a file `manifest_<allocation name>_<date>.zip` to your default downloads folder.

### 1.2.6. Activating Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform

Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform uses available subscriptions or a subscription manifest to allow the use of Ansible Automation Platform.

To obtain a subscription, you can do either of the following:

1. Use your Red Hat username and password, service account credentials, or Satellite credentials when you launch Ansible Automation Platform.
2. Upload a subscriptions manifest file either using the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform interface or manually in an Ansible Playbook.

#### 1.2.6.1. Activate with credentials

Activate your Ansible Automation Platform subscription at the first launch by providing either Red Hat service account credentials or your personal Red Hat username and password. This process automatically retrieves and imports the required license, which grants the platform access to Red Hat content and entitlement services.

Note

You are opted in for Automation Analytics by default when you activate the platform on first login. This helps Red Hat improve the product by delivering you a much better user experience. You can opt out after activating Ansible Automation Platform by taking the following steps:

1. From the navigation panel, select Settings → Automation Execution → System.
2. Clear the **Gather data for Automation Analytics** option.
3. Click Save.

**Procedure**

1. Log in to Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.

2. Select the **Service Account** tab in the subscription wizard.

3. Enter your **Client ID** and **Client secret**.

4. Select your subscription from the **Subscription** list.

  
  Note
      You can also enter your Satellite username and password in the **Satellite** tab if your cluster nodes are registered to Satellite through Subscription Manager.

5. Review the End User License Agreement and select **I agree to the End User License Agreement**.

6. Click Finish.

**Verification**

After your subscription has been accepted, subscription details are displayed. A status of *Compliant* indicates your subscription is in compliance with the number of hosts you have automated within your subscription count. Otherwise, your status shows as *Out of Compliance*, indicating you have exceeded the number of hosts in your subscription. Other important information displayed include the following:

Hosts automated
Host count automated by the job, which consumes the license count

Hosts imported
Host count considering all inventory sources (does not impact hosts remaining)

Hosts remaining
Total host count minus hosts automated

#### 1.2.6.2. Activate with a manifest file

If you have a subscriptions manifest, you can upload the manifest file by using the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform interface.

Note

You are opted in for Automation Analytics by default when you activate the platform on first login. This helps Red Hat improve the product by delivering you a much better user experience. You can opt out after activating Ansible Automation Platform by taking the following steps:

1. From the navigation panel, select Settings → Automation Execution → System.
2. Clear the **Gather data for Automation Analytics** option.
3. Click Save.

**Prerequisites**

You must have a Red Hat subscription manifest file exported from the Red Hat Customer Portal. For more information, see [Obtaining a manifest file](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/assembly-gateway-licensing#assembly-aap-obtain-manifest-files).

**Procedure**

1. Log in to Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.


  1. If you are not immediately taken to the subscription wizard, go to Settings → Subscription.

2. Select the **Subscription manifest** tab.

3. Click Browse and select your manifest file.

4. Review the End User License Agreement and select **I agree to the End User License Agreement**.

5. Click Finish.

  
  Note
      If the BROWSE button is disabled on the subscription wizard page, clear the **USERNAME** and **PASSWORD** fields.

**Verification**

After your subscription has been accepted, subscription details are displayed. A status of *Compliant* indicates your subscription is in compliance with the number of hosts you have automated within your subscription count. Otherwise, your status shows as *Out of Compliance*, indicating you have exceeded the number of hosts in your subscription. Other important information displayed include the following:

Hosts automated
Host count automated by the job, which uses the subscription count

Hosts imported
Host count considering all inventory sources (does not impact hosts remaining)

Hosts remaining
Total host count minus hosts automated

**Next steps**

- You can return to the subscription wizard by selecting Settings → Subscription from the navigation panel and clicking Edit subscription.

# Chapter 2. System requirements

Use this information when planning your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installations and designing automation mesh topologies that fit your use case.

## 2.1. Prerequisites

- Obtain root access either through the `sudo` command, or through privilege escalation.


  - De-escalate privileges from root to users such as: AWX, PostgreSQL, Event-Driven Ansible, or Pulp.

- Configured an NTP client on all nodes.

## 2.2. Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform system requirements

Your system must meet the following minimum system requirements to install and run Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform. A resilient deployment requires 10 virtual machines with a minimum of 16 gigabytes (GB) of RAM and 4 virtual CPUs (vCPU). See [Tested deployment models](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/tested_deployment_models) for more information on topology options.

**Table 2.1. Base system**

| Type | Description | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <br> **Subscription** | <br>  Valid Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform subscription |  |
| <br> **Operating system** | <br>  Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9.4 or later minor versions of Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 | <br>  Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform are also supported on OpenShift, see [Installing on OpenShift Container Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/installing_on_openshift_container_platform) for more information. |
| <br> **CPU architecture** | <br>  x86_64, AArch64, s390x (IBM Z), ppc64le (IBM Power) |  |
| <br> **Ansible-core** | <br>  Ansible-core version 2.16 or later | <br>  Ansible Automation Platform uses the system-wide ansible-core package to install the platform, but uses ansible-core 2.16 for both its control plane and built-in execution environments. |
| <br> **Browser** | <br>  A currently supported version of Mozilla Firefox or Google Chrome. |  |
| <br> **Database** | <br>  For Ansible Automation Platform managed databases: PostgreSQL 15.   For customer provided (external) databases: PostgreSQL 15, 16, or 17. | <br>  External (customer supported) databases require International Components for Unicode (ICU) support.   External databases using PostgreSQL 16 or 17 must rely on external backup and restore processes. Backup and restore functionality is dependent on utilities provided with PostgreSQL 15. |
| <br> **IP version** | <br>  IPv4, IPv6 (single-stack and dual-stack) |  |

**Table 2.2. Virtual machine requirements**

| Component | RAM | vCPU | Disk IOPS | Storage |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br>  Platform gateway | <br>  16GB | <br>  4 | <br>  3000 | <br>  60GB minimum |
| <br>  Control nodes | <br>  16GB | <br>  4 | <br>  3000 | <br>  80GB minimum with at least 20GB available under `/var/lib/awx` |
| <br>  Execution nodes | <br>  16GB | <br>  4 | <br>  3000 | <br>  60GB minimum |
| <br>  Hop nodes | <br>  16GB | <br>  4 | <br>  3000 | <br>  60GB minimum |
| <br>  Automation hub | <br>  16GB | <br>  4 | <br>  3000 | <br>  60GB minimum with at least 40GB allocated to `/var/lib/pulp` |
| <br>  Database | <br>  16GB | <br>  4 | <br>  3000 | <br>  100GB minimum allocated to `/var/lib/pgsql` |
| <br>  Event-Driven Ansible controller | <br>  16GB | <br>  4 | <br>  3000 | <br>  60GB minimum |

Note

These are minimum requirements and can be increased for larger workloads in increments of 2x (for example 16GB becomes 32GB and 4 vCPU becomes 8vCPU). See the horizontal scaling guide for more information.

### 2.2.1. Repository requirements

Enable the following repositories only when installing Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform:

- RHEL BaseOS
- RHEL AppStream

Note

If you enable repositories besides those mentioned above, the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installation could fail unexpectedly.

The following are necessary for you to work with project updates and collections:

- Ensure that the [Network ports and protocols](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/network-ports-protocols_planning#network-ports-protocols_table) are available for successful connection and download of collections from automation hub or Ansible Galaxy server.

### 2.2.2. Additional notes for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform requirements

- The Ansible Automation Platform database backups are staged on each node at `/var/backups/automation-platform` through the variable `backup_dir`. You might need to mount a new volume to `/var/backups` or change the staging location with the variable `backup_dir` to prevent issues with disk space before running the `./setup.sh -b` script.
- If performing a bundled Ansible Automation Platform installation, the installation setup.sh script attempts to install ansible-core (and its dependencies) from the bundle for you.
- If you have installed Ansible-core manually, the Ansible Automation Platform installation setup.sh script detects that Ansible has been installed and does not attempt to reinstall it.

Note

You must use Ansible-core, which is installed by using DNF. Ansible-core version 2.16 is required for versions 2.6 and later.

## 2.3. Platform gateway system requirements

Platform gateway is the service that handles authentication and authorization for Ansible Automation Platform. It provides a single entry into the platform and serves the platform’s user interface.

## 2.4. Automation controller system requirements

Automation controller is a distributed system, where different software components can be co-located or deployed across many compute nodes. The installation program provides four node types as abstractions to help you design the topology appropriate for your use case: control, hybrid, execution, and hop nodes.

Use the following recommendations for node sizing:

**Table 2.3. Recommended Resource Sizing for Automation controller Node Types**

| Node Type | RAM (Minimum) | vCPU (Minimum) | Disk IOPS (Minimum) | Storage and Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br> **Execution Node** | <br>  16 GB | <br>  4 vCPU | <br>  3000 | <br>  Runs automation. Increase RAM/CPU to increase capacity for concurrent job **forks**. Performance depends heavily on the number of jobs run simultaneously. |
| <br> **Control Node** | <br>  16 GB | <br>  4 vCPU | <br>  3000 | <br>  Processes events and runs cluster jobs (e.g., project updates). * **Storage:** 80GB minimum, with at least 20GB available under `/var/lib/awx`. * **Storage Requirement:** Volume must be rated for a minimum baseline of 3000 IOPS. |
| <br> **Hybrid Node** | <br>  16 GB | <br>  4 vCPU | <br>  3000 | <br>  A combination of Control and Execution node functions. Storage requirements generally match the Control Node. |
| <br> **Hop Node** | <br>  16 GB | <br>  4 vCPU | <br>  3000 | <br>  Routes traffic within the automation mesh (e.g., bastion host). RAM can affect throughput, but CPU activity is typically low. Network latency is a more important factor than RAM or CPU. |

- Actual RAM requirements vary based on how many hosts automation controller manages simultaneously (which is controlled by the `forks` parameter in the job template or the system `ansible.cfg` file). To avoid possible resource conflicts, Ansible recommends 1 GB of memory per 10 forks and 2 GB reservation for automation controller. See [Automation controller capacity determination and job impact](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/using_automation_execution/controller-jobs#controller-capacity-determination). If `forks` is set to 400, 42 GB of memory is recommended.

- A larger number of hosts can be addressed, but if the fork number is less than the total host count, more passes across the hosts are required. You can avoid these RAM limitations by using any of the following approaches:


  - Use rolling updates.
  - Use the provisioning callback system built into automation controller, where each system requesting configuration enters a queue and is processed as quickly as possible.
  - In cases where automation controller is producing or deploying images such as AMIs.

**Additional resources**

- [Attaching your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform subscription](https://access.redhat.com/articles/5807761)
- [Red Hat Customer Portal](https://access.redhat.com/)

## 2.5. Automation hub system requirements

With Automation hub you can discover and use new certified automation content from Red Hat Ansible and Certified Partners.

On Ansible automation hub, you can discover and manage Ansible Collections, which are supported automation content developed by Red Hat and its partners for use cases such as cloud automation, network automation, and security automation.

Note

Private automation hub

If you install private automation hub from an internal address with a certificate that only encompasses the external address, this can result in an installation that cannot be used as container registry without certificate issues.

To avoid this, use the `automationhub_main_url` inventory variable with a value such as https://pah.example.com linking to the private automation hub node in the installation inventory file.

This adds the external address to `/etc/pulp/settings.py`. This implies that you only want to use the external address.

For information about inventory file variables, see [Inventory file variables](#appendix-inventory-files-vars "Appendix&nbsp;A.&nbsp;Inventory file variables").

### 2.5.1. High availability automation hub requirements

Before deploying a high availability (HA) automation hub, ensure that you have a shared storage file system installed in your environment and that you have configured your network storage system, if applicable.

#### 2.5.1.1. Required shared storage

Shared storage is required when installing more than one Automation hub with a `file` storage backend. The supported shared storage type for RPM-based installations is Network File System (NFS).

Before you run the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer, verify that you installed the `/var/lib/pulp` directory across your cluster as part of the shared storage file system installation. The Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer returns an error if `/var/lib/pulp` is not detected in one of your nodes, causing your high availability automation hub setup to fail.

If you receive an error stating `/var/lib/pulp` is not detected in one of your nodes, ensure `/var/lib/pulp` is properly mounted in all servers and re-run the installation program.

#### 2.5.1.2. Installing firewalld for HA hub deployment

If you intend to install a HA automation hub using a network storage on the automation hub nodes itself, you must first install and use `firewalld` to open the necessary ports as required by your shared storage system before running the Ansible Automation Platform installer.

Install and configure `firewalld` by executing the following commands:

1. Install the `firewalld` daemon:

    $ dnf install firewalld

2. Add your network storage under <service> using the following command:

    $ firewall-cmd --permanent --add-service=<service>

  
  Note
      For a list of supported services, use the `$ firewall-cmd --get-services` command

3. Reload to apply the configuration:

    $ firewall-cmd --reload

## 2.6. Event-Driven Ansible controller system requirements

The Event-Driven Ansible controller is a single-node system capable of handling a variable number of long-running processes (such as rulebook activations) on-demand, depending on the number of CPU cores.

Use the following minimum requirements for Event-Driven Ansible controller:

| Requirement | Required |
| --- | --- |
| <br> **RAM** | <br>  16 GB |
| <br> **CPUs** | <br>  4 |
| <br> **Local disk** | <br>  Hard drive must be 40 GB minimum with at least 20 GB available under /var.   Storage volume must be rated for a minimum baseline of 3000 IOPS.   If the cluster has many large projects or decision environment images, consider doubling the GB in /var to avoid disk space errors. |

Important

When you activate an Event-Driven Ansible rulebook under standard conditions, it uses about 250 MB of memory. However, the actual memory consumption can vary significantly based on the complexity of your rules and the volume and size of the events processed. In scenarios where a large number of events are anticipated or the rulebook complexity is high, conduct a preliminary assessment of resource usage in a staging environment. This ensures that your maximum number of activations is based on the capacity of your resources.

## 2.7. PostgreSQL requirements

Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 requires the external (customer supported) databases to have International Components for Unicode (ICU) support. PostgreSQL user passwords are hashed with SCRAM-SHA-256 secure hashing algorithm before storing in the database.

To determine if your automation controller instance has access to the database, you can do so with the command, `awx-manage check_db` command.

Note

- Automation controller data is stored in the database. Database storage increases with the number of hosts managed, number of jobs run, number of facts stored in the fact cache, and number of tasks in any individual job. For example, a playbook runs every hour (24 times a day) across 250 hosts, with 20 tasks, stores over 800000 events in the database every week.
- If not enough space is reserved in the database, the old job runs and facts must be cleaned on a regular basis. For more information, see [Management Jobs](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/configuring_automation_execution/assembly-controller-management-jobs) in the *Configuring automation execution* guide.

### 2.7.1. PostgreSQL Configurations

Optionally, you can configure the PostgreSQL database as separate nodes that are not managed by the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer. When the Ansible Automation Platform installer manages the database server, it configures the server with defaults that are generally recommended for most workloads. For more information about the settings you can use to improve database performance, see [PostgreSQL database configuration and maintenance for automation controller](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/configuring_automation_execution/assembly-controller-improving-performance#ref-controller-database-settings) in the *Configuring automation execution* guide.

**Additional resources**

- [PostgreSQL documentation](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Main_Page)

### 2.7.2. Setting up an external database

Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 requires the external (customer supported) databases to have International Components for Unicode (ICU) support. Use the following procedure to configure an external PostgreSQL compliant database for use with an Ansible Automation Platform component, for example automation controller, Event-Driven Ansible, automation hub, and platform gateway.

Important

- When using an external database with Ansible Automation Platform, you must create and maintain that database. Ensure that you clear your external database when uninstalling Ansible Automation Platform.
- Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 requires the external (customer supported) databases to have ICU support.
- During configuration of an external database, you must check the external database coverage. For more information, see [Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform Database Scope of Coverage](https://access.redhat.com/articles/4010491).

**Procedure**

1. Connect to a PostgreSQL compliant database server with superuser privileges.

    # psql -h <hostname> -U superuser -p 5432 -d postgres <password_for_user_superuser>

2. Where the default value for <hostname> is **hostname**:

    -h hostname
    --host=hostname

3. Specify the hostname of the machine on which the server is running. If the value begins with a slash, it is used as the directory for the UNIX-domain socket.

    -d dbname
    --dbname=dbname

4. Specify the name of the database to connect to. This is equal to specifying `dbname` as the first non-option argument on the command line. The `dbname` can be a connection string. If so, connection string parameters override any conflicting command line options.

    -U username
    --username=username

5. Connect to the database as the user `username` instead of the default (you must have permission to do so).

6. Create the user, database, and password with the `createDB` or `administrator` role assigned to the user. For further information, see [Database Roles](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/13/user-manag.html).

7. Run the installation program. If you are using a PostgreSQL database, the database is owned by the connecting user and must have a `createDB` or administrator role assigned to it.

8. Check that you can connect to the created database with the credentials provided in the inventory file.

9. Check the permission of the user. The user should have the `createDB` or administrator role.

10. After you create the PostgreSQL users and databases for each component, add the database credentials and host details in the inventory file under the [all:vars] group.

    # Automation controller
    pg_host=data.example.com
    pg_database=<database name>
    pg_port=<port_number>
    pg_username=<set your own>
    pg_password=<set your own>

        # Platform gateway
    automationgateway_pg_host=aap.example.org
    automationgateway_pg_database=<set your own>
    automationgateway_pg_port=<port_number>
    automationgateway_pg_username=<set your own>
    automationgateway_pg_password=<set your own>

        # Automation hub
    automationhub_pg_host=data.example.com
    automationhub_pg_database=<database_name>
    automationhub_pg_port=<port_number>
    automationhub_pg_username=<username>
    automationhub_pg_password=<password>

        # Event-Driven Ansible
    automationedacontroller_pg_host=data.example.com
    automationedacontroller_pg_database=<database_name>
    automationedacontroller_pg_port=<port_number>
    automationedacontroller_pg_username=<username>
    automationedacontroller_pg_password=<password>

### 2.7.3. Enabling mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication

Enable mutual TLS authentication to secure PostgreSQL database connections with certificate-based verification. This protects against unauthorized access and man-in-the-middle attacks while meeting enterprise security and compliance requirements.

**Procedure**

- To configure each component’s database with mTLS authentication, add the following variables to your inventory file under the `[all:vars]` group and ensure each component has a different TLS certificate and key:

    # Automation controller
    pgclient_sslcert=/path/to/awx.cert
    pgclient_sslkey=/path/to/awx.key
    pg_sslmode=verify-full or verify-ca

        # Platform gateway
    automationgateway_pgclient_sslcert=/path/to/gateway.cert
    automationgateway_pgclient_sslkey=/path/to/gateway.key
    automationgateway_pg_sslmode=verify-full or verify-ca

        # Automation hub
    automationhub_pgclient_sslcert=/path/to/pulp.cert
    automationhub_pgclient_sslkey=/path/to/pulp.key
    automationhub_pg_sslmode=verify-full or verify-ca

        # Event-Driven Ansible
    automationedacontroller_pgclient_sslcert=/path/to/eda.cert
    automationedacontroller_pgclient_sslkey=/path/to/eda.key
    automationedacontroller_pg_sslmode=verify-full or verify-ca

### 2.7.4. Using custom TLS certificates

Configure the installer to use your custom TLS certificates and keys for all Ansible Automation Platform services instead of the default self-signed certificates. This is achieved by setting inventory variables (`aap_ca_cert_file` and `aap_ca_key_file`), and optionally specifying a custom Certificate Authority (CA) certificate using `custom_ca_cert` to ensure trust and security across the platform.

**Procedure**

- To replace these with your own custom certificate and key, set the following inventory file variables:

    aap_ca_cert_file=<path_to_ca_tls_certificate>
    aap_ca_key_file=<path_to_ca_tls_key>

- If any of your certificates are signed by a custom Certificate Authority (CA), then you must specify the Certificate Authority’s certificate by using the `custom_ca_cert` inventory file variable:

    custom_ca_cert=<path_to_custom_ca_certificate>

  
  Note
      If you have more than one custom CA certificate, combine them into a single file, then reference the combined certificate with the `custom_ca_cert` inventory file variable.

### 2.7.5. Receptor certificate considerations

When using a custom certificate for Receptor nodes, the certificate requires the `otherName` field specified in the Subject Alternative Name (SAN) of the certificate with the value `1.3.6.1.4.1.2312.19.1`. For more information, see [Above the mesh TLS](https://ansible.readthedocs.io/projects/receptor/en/latest/user_guide/tls.html#above-the-mesh-tls).

Receptor does not support the usage of wildcard certificates. Additionally, each Receptor certificate must have the host FQDN specified in its SAN for TLS hostname validation to be correctly performed.

### 2.7.6. Enabling the hstore extension for the automation hub PostgreSQL database

The database migration script uses `hstore` fields to store information, therefore the `hstore` extension must be enabled in the automation hub PostgreSQL database.

This process is automatic when using the Ansible Automation Platform installer and a managed PostgreSQL server.

If the PostgreSQL database is external, you must enable the `hstore` extension in the automation hub PostgreSQL database manually before installation.

If the `hstore` extension is not enabled before installation, a failure raises during database migration.

**Procedure**

1. Check if the extension is available on the PostgreSQL server (automation hub database).

    $ psql -d <automation hub database> -c "SELECT * FROM pg_available_extensions WHERE name='hstore'"

2. Where the default value for `<automation hub database>` is `automationhub`.

    **Example output with `hstore` available**:

    name  | default_version | installed_version |comment
    ------+-----------------+-------------------+---------------------------------------------------
     hstore | 1.7           |                   | data type for storing sets of (key, value) pairs
    (1 row)

    **Example output with `hstore` not available**:

     name | default_version | installed_version | comment
    ------+-----------------+-------------------+---------
    (0 rows)

3. On a RHEL based server, the `hstore` extension is included in the `postgresql-contrib` RPM package, which is not installed automatically when installing the PostgreSQL server RPM package.

    To install the RPM package, use the following command:

    dnf install postgresql-contrib

4. Load the `hstore` PostgreSQL extension into the automation hub database with the following command:

    $ psql -d <automation hub database> -c "CREATE EXTENSION hstore;"

    In the following output, the `installed_version` field lists the `hstore` extension used, indicating that `hstore` is enabled.

    name | default_version | installed_version | comment
    -----+-----------------+-------------------+------------------------------------------------------
    hstore  |     1.7      |       1.7         | data type for storing sets of (key, value) pairs
    (1 row)

### 2.7.7. Benchmarking storage performance for the Ansible Automation Platform PostgreSQL database

Use the Flexible I/O Tester (FIO) tool to verify that your storage system meets minimum Ansible Automation Platform PostgreSQL database requirements. FIO benchmarks read and write IOPS performance to help you evaluate storage capabilities.

**Prerequisites**

- You have installed the Flexible I/O Tester (`fio`) storage performance benchmarking tool.

    To install `fio`, run the following command as the root user:

    # yum -y install fio

- You have adequate disk space to store the `fio` test data log files.

    The examples shown in the procedure require at least 60GB disk space in the `/tmp` directory:

  

  - `numjobs` sets the number of jobs run by the command.
  - `size=10G` sets the file size generated by each job.

- You have adjusted the value of the `size` parameter. Adjusting this value reduces the amount of test data.

**Procedure**

1. Run a random write test:

    $ fio --name=write_iops --directory=/tmp --numjobs=3 --size=10G \
    --time_based --runtime=60s --ramp_time=2s --ioengine=libaio --direct=1 \
    --verify=0 --bs=4K --iodepth=64 --rw=randwrite \
    --group_reporting=1 > /tmp/fio_benchmark_write_iops.log \
    2>> /tmp/fio_write_iops_error.log

2. Run a random read test:

    $ fio --name=read_iops --directory=/tmp \
    --numjobs=3 --size=10G --time_based --runtime=60s --ramp_time=2s \
    --ioengine=libaio --direct=1 --verify=0 --bs=4K --iodepth=64 --rw=randread \
    --group_reporting=1 > /tmp/fio_benchmark_read_iops.log \
    2>> /tmp/fio_read_iops_error.log

3. Review the results:

    In the log files written by the benchmark commands, search for the line beginning with `iops`. This line shows the minimum, maximum, and average values for the test.

    The following example shows the line in the log file for the random read test:

    $ cat /tmp/fio_benchmark_read_iops.log
    read_iops: (g=0): rw=randread, bs=(R) 4096B-4096B, (W) 4096B-4096B, (T) 4096B-4096B, ioengine=libaio, iodepth=64
    […]
       iops        : min=50879, max=61603, avg=56221.33, stdev=679.97, samples=360
    […]

  
  Note
      The above is a baseline to help evaluate the best case performance on your systems. Systems can and will change and performance may vary depending on what else is happening on your systems, storage or network at the time of testing. You must review, monitor, and revisit the log files according to your own business requirements, application workloads, and new demands.

# Chapter 3. Backup and restore Ansible Automation Platform

You can protect your Ansible Automation Platform environment by backing up the database, configuration files, and keys. Use the `./setup.sh` script or playbooks to create compressed artifacts. This ensures a recovery path for single nodes or clusters, including restores, to secondary instances.

Note

Use the installation program matching your current Ansible Automation Platform version for backups, and always use the latest available version for restores. Ensure your PostgreSQL version is supported by checking the [System requirements](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/platform-system-requirements) in *Planning your installation*.

## 3.1. Backup and restoration considerations

Consider the following points when you backup and restore your system:

Disk space
Review your disk space requirements to ensure you have enough room to backup configuration files, keys, other relevant files, and the database of the Ansible Automation Platform installation.

Note

The Ansible Automation Platform database backups are staged on each node at `/var/backups/automation-platform` through the variable `backup_dir`. You might need to mount a new volume to `/var/backups` or change the staging location with the variable `backup_dir` to prevent issues with disk space before running the `./setup.sh -b` script.

System credentials
Confirm you have the required system credentials when working with a local database or a remote database. On local systems, you might need `root` or `sudo` access, depending on how credentials are set up. On remote systems, you might need different credentials to grant you access to the remote system you are trying to backup or restore.

Version
You must always use the most recent minor version of a release to backup or restore your Ansible Automation Platform installation version. For example, if the current platform version you are on is 2.6.x, only use the latest 2.6 installer.

Backup file location
- **Default location:** If the backup file is placed in the same directory as the `./setup.sh` installer, the restore playbook locates it automatically.
- **Non-default location:** If your backup file is stored in a different directory, you must specify the path using the `restore_backup_file` extra variable when running the restore command.

## 3.2. Back up the Ansible Automation Platform

Back up your instance using the `setup.sh` script to save your environment content and configuration. Use the optional `backup_dest` flag only to change the default save location. Apply compression flags to reduce artifact size before transmission.

### 3.2.1. Backup playbook

The Ansible Automation Platform installer (`install.yml`) includes the `backup.yml` playbook, which automates the backup and restoration of your environment. You can use this playbook to capture critical configuration data and databases for the following components:

- Platform gateway:


  - The database
  - The `SECRET_KEY` file

- Automation controller:


  - The database
  - The `SECRET_KEY` file
  - The `` RESOURCE_SERVER` `` key
  - The per-host custom configuration files

- Automation hub:


  - The database
  - The database_fields.symmetric.key file
  - The `` SECRET_KEY` `` file
  - The `RESOURCE_SERVER` key
  - Automation hub pulp content

- Event-Driven Ansible controller:


  - The database
  - The `SECRET_KEY` file
  - The `RESOURCE_SERVER` key

### 3.2.2. Back up the platform using automation installer

Run the setup script to create a verified archive of your platform database, configurations, and secrets. This ensures your instance is captured in a compatible format for reliable restoration during a system failure or migration.

**Procedure**

1. Navigate to your Ansible Automation Platform installation directory.

2. Run the `./setup.sh` script following the example below:

    $ ./setup.sh -e 'backup_dest=/ansible/mybackup' -e
    'use_archive_compression=true' 'use_db_compression=true @credentials.yml -b

    Where:


  - `backup_dest`: Specifies a directory to save your backup to.

  - `backup_dir`: Specifies the directory used on the host staging backup files before they are transferred to `backup_dest` locally.

  - `use_archive_compression=true` and `use_db_compression=true`: Compresses the backup artifacts before they are sent to the host running the backup operation.

        You can use the following variables to customize the compression:


    - For global control of compression for filesystem related backup files: `use_archive_compression=true`
    - For component-level control of compression for filesystem related backup files: `<componentName>_use_archive_compression`
    - For global control of compression for database related backup files: `use_db_compression=true`
    - For component-level control of compression for database related backup files: `<componentName>_use_db_compression=true`

**Result**

After a successful backup, a backup file is created at `/ansible/mybackup/automation-platform-backup-<date/time>.tar.gz`.

## 3.3. Restore Ansible Automation Platform

Restoring your instance using the `setup.sh script` helps you safely reinstate your environment content and configuration. Use the optional `restore_backup_file` flag *only* to change the TAR file location.

### 3.3.1. Restore playbook

Automation controller includes playbooks to backup and restore your installation.

In addition to the `install.yml` file included with your `setup.sh` setup playbook, there are also `restore.yml` files.

The restore backup restores the backed up files and data to a freshly installed and working second instance of automation controller.

When restoring your system, installation program checks to see that the backup file exists before beginning the restoration. If the backup file is not available, your restoration fails.

Note

Make sure that your automation controller hosts are properly set up with SSH keys, user or pass variables in the hosts file, and that the user has `sudo` access.

### 3.3.2. Restore the platform to its original state

Restore your environment by running the setup.sh script to recover platform data and configurations. Ensure the backup TAR file is available in the default location, or use the optional `restore_backup_file` flag to specify a custom path before starting.

**Procedure**

1. Navigate to your Ansible Automation Platform installation directory.

2. Run the ./setup.sh script following the example:

    root@localhost:~# ./setup.sh -e 'restore_backup_file=/path/to/nondefault/backup.tar.gz' -r

    Where: `restore_backup_file`: Path to the TAR file used for the platform restore.

# Chapter 4. Installing Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform

Ansible Automation Platform is a modular platform. The platform gateway deploys automation platform components, such as automation controller, automation hub, and Event-Driven Ansible controller.

For more information about the components provided with Ansible Automation Platform, see [Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform components](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/ref-aap-components) in Planning your installation.

There are several supported installation scenarios for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform. To install Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform, you must edit the inventory file parameters to specify your installation scenario. You can use the [enterprise installer](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/tested_deployment_models/rpm-topologies#example_enterprise_inventory_file) as a basis for your own inventory file.

## 4.1. Additional resources

- [Inventory file variables](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/appendix-inventory-files-vars)

## 4.2. Editing the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer inventory file

You can use the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer inventory file to specify your installation scenario.

### 4.2.1. For an RPM installation

*Procedure*

**RPM installed package**

    $ cd /opt/ansible-automation-platform/installer/

**Bundled installer**

    $ cd ansible-automation-platform-setup-bundle-<latest-version>

**Online installer**

    $ cd ansible-automation-platform-setup-<latest-version>

1. Open the `inventory` file with a text editor.

2. Edit the `inventory` file parameters to specify your installation scenario.

    For containerized installation, see [Configuring the inventory file](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/preparing-containerized-installation#configuring-inventory-file) You can use one of the supported [Installation scenario examples](#con-install-scenario-examples "4.3.&nbsp;Inventory file examples based on installation scenarios") as the basis for your `inventory` file.

**Additional resources**

- [Inventory file variables](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/appendix-inventory-files-vars)

## 4.3. Inventory file examples based on installation scenarios

Red Hat supports several installation scenarios for Ansible Automation Platform. You can develop your own inventory files using the example files as a basis, or you can use the example closest to your preferred installation scenario.

### 4.3.1. Inventory file recommendations based on installation scenarios

Inventory file recommendations define critical variables and configuration rules for installing Ansible Automation Platform in various scenarios. Reviewing these guidelines ensures that hosts are properly identified (using a reachable IP address or FQDN) and that credential variables meet required standards, thereby streamlining the installation process and preventing setup failures.

- Provide a reachable IP address or fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for hosts to ensure users can sync and install content from automation hub from a different node.

    The FQDN must not contain either the `-` or the `_` symbols, as it will not be processed correctly.

    Do not use `localhost`.

- The `[database]` group in the inventory file defines an Ansible Automation Platform managed database. When using an externally managed database, do not include the `[database]` group in your inventory file. For more information, see [Setting up an external database](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/platform-system-requirements#proc-setup-postgresql-ext-database_licensing-gw).

- `admin` is the default user ID for the initial log in to Ansible Automation Platform and cannot be changed in the inventory file.

- Use of special characters for `pg_password` is limited. The `!`, `#`, `0` and `@` characters are supported. Use of other special characters can cause the setup to fail.

- Enter your Red Hat Registry Service Account credentials in `registry_username` and `registry_password` to link to the Red Hat container registry.

- The inventory file variables `registry_username` and `registry_password` are only required if a non-bundle installer is used.

#### 4.3.1.1. Single platform gateway and automation controller with an external (installer managed) database

Use this example to see what is minimally needed within the inventory file to deploy single instances of platform gateway and automation controller with an external (installer managed) database.

    [automationcontroller]
    controller.example.com

    [automationgateway]
    gateway.example.com

    [database]
    data.example.com

    [all:vars]
    admin_password='<password>'
    redis_mode=standalone
    pg_host='data.example.com'
    pg_port=5432
    pg_database='awx'
    pg_username='awx'
    pg_password='<password>'
    pg_sslmode='prefer' # set to 'verify-full' for client-side enforced SSL

    registry_url='registry.redhat.io'
    registry_username='<registry username>'
    registry_password='<registry password>'

    # Automation Gateway configuration
    automationgateway_admin_password=''

    automationgateway_pg_host='data.example.com'
    automationgateway_pg_port=5432

    automationgateway_pg_database='automationgateway'
    automationgateway_pg_username='automationgateway'
    automationgateway_pg_password=''
    automationgateway_pg_sslmode='prefer'

    # The main automation gateway URL that clients will connect to (e.g. https://<load balancer host>).
    # If not specified, the first node in the [automationgateway] group will be used when needed.
    # automationgateway_main_url = ''

    # Certificate and key to install in Automation Gateway
    # automationgateway_ssl_cert=/path/to/automationgateway.cert
    # automationgateway_ssl_key=/path/to/automationgateway.key

    # SSL-related variables
    # If set, this will install a custom CA certificate to the system trust store.
    # custom_ca_cert=/path/to/ca.crt
    # Certificate and key to install in nginx for the web UI and API
    # web_server_ssl_cert=/path/to/tower.cert
    # web_server_ssl_key=/path/to/tower.key
    # Server-side SSL settings for PostgreSQL (when we are installing it).
    # postgres_use_ssl=False
    # postgres_ssl_cert=/path/to/pgsql.crt
    # postgres_ssl_key=/path/to/pgsql.key

#### 4.3.1.2. Single platform gateway, automation controller, and automation hub with an external (installer managed) database

Use this example to populate the inventory file to deploy single instances of platform gateway, automation controller, and automation hub with an external (installer managed) database.

    [automationcontroller]
    controller.example.com

    [automationhub]
    automationhub.example.com

    [automationgateway]
    gateway.example.com

    [database]
    data.example.com

    [all:vars]
    admin_password='<password>'
    redis_mode=standalone
    pg_host='data.example.com'
    pg_port='5432'
    pg_database='awx'
    pg_username='awx'
    pg_password='<password>'
    pg_sslmode='prefer'  # set to 'verify-full' for client-side enforced SSL

    registry_url='registry.redhat.io'
    registry_username='<registry username>'
    registry_password='<registry password>'

    automationhub_admin_password= <PASSWORD>

    automationhub_pg_host='data.example.com'
    automationhub_pg_port=5432

    automationhub_pg_database='automationhub'
    automationhub_pg_username='automationhub'
    automationhub_pg_password=<PASSWORD>
    automationhub_pg_sslmode='prefer'

    # The default install will deploy a TLS enabled Automation Hub.
    # If for some reason this is not the behavior wanted one can
    # disable TLS enabled deployment.
    #
    # automationhub_disable_https = False
    # The default install will generate self-signed certificates for the Automation
    # Hub service. If you are providing valid certificate via automationhub_ssl_cert
    # and automationhub_ssl_key, one should toggle that value to True.
    #
    # automationhub_ssl_validate_certs = False
    # SSL-related variables
    # If set, this will install a custom CA certificate to the system trust store.
    # custom_ca_cert=/path/to/ca.crt
    # Certificate and key to install in Automation Hub node
    # automationhub_ssl_cert=/path/to/automationhub.cert
    # automationhub_ssl_key=/path/to/automationhub.key

    # Automation Gateway configuration
    automationgateway_admin_password=''

    automationgateway_pg_host=''
    automationgateway_pg_port=5432

    automationgateway_pg_database='automationgateway'
    automationgateway_pg_username='automationgateway'
    automationgateway_pg_password=''
    automationgateway_pg_sslmode='prefer'

    # The main automation gateway URL that clients will connect to (e.g. https://<load balancer host>).
    # If not specified, the first node in the [automationgateway] group will be used when needed.
    # automationgateway_main_url = ''

    # Certificate and key to install in Automation Gateway
    # automationgateway_ssl_cert=/path/to/automationgateway.cert
    # automationgateway_ssl_key=/path/to/automationgateway.key

    # Certificate and key to install in nginx for the web UI and API
    # web_server_ssl_cert=/path/to/tower.cert
    # web_server_ssl_key=/path/to/tower.key
    # Server-side SSL settings for PostgreSQL (when we are installing it).
    # postgres_use_ssl=False
    # postgres_ssl_cert=/path/to/pgsql.crt
    # postgres_ssl_key=/path/to/pgsql.key

#### 4.3.1.3. Single platform gateway, automation controller, automation hub, and Event-Driven Ansible controller with an external (installer managed) database

Use this example to populate the inventory file to deploy single instances of platform gateway, automation controller, automation hub, and Event-Driven Ansible controller with an external (installer managed) database.

Important

- This scenario requires a minimum of automation controller 2.4 for successful deployment of Event-Driven Ansible controller.
- Event-Driven Ansible controller must be installed on a separate server and cannot be installed on the same host as automation hub and automation controller.
- When an Event-Driven Ansible rulebook is activated under standard conditions, it uses approximately 250 MB of memory. However, the actual memory consumption can vary significantly based on the complexity of the rules and the volume and size of the events processed. In scenarios where a large number of events are anticipated or the rulebook complexity is high, conduct a preliminary assessment of resource usage in a staging environment. This ensures that the maximum number of activations is based on the resource capacity.

    [automationcontroller]
    controller.example.com

    [automationhub]
    automationhub.example.com

    [automationedacontroller]
    automationedacontroller.example.com

    [automationgateway]
    gateway.example.com

    [database]
    data.example.com

    [all:vars]
    admin_password='<password>'
    redis_mode=standalone
    pg_host='data.example.com'
    pg_port='5432'
    pg_database='awx'
    pg_username='awx'
    pg_password='<password>'
    pg_sslmode='prefer'  # set to 'verify-full' for client-side enforced SSL

    registry_url='registry.redhat.io'
    registry_username='<registry username>'
    registry_password='<registry password>'

    # Automation hub configuration

    automationhub_admin_password= <PASSWORD>

    automationhub_pg_host='data.example.com'
    automationhub_pg_port=5432

    automationhub_pg_database='automationhub'
    automationhub_pg_username='automationhub'
    automationhub_pg_password=<PASSWORD>
    automationhub_pg_sslmode='prefer'

    # Automation Event-Driven Ansible controller configuration

    automationedacontroller_admin_password='<eda-password>'

    automationedacontroller_pg_host='data.example.com'
    automationedacontroller_pg_port=5432

    automationedacontroller_pg_database='automationedacontroller'
    automationedacontroller_pg_username='automationedacontroller'
    automationedacontroller_pg_password='<password>'

    # Keystore file to install in SSO node
    # sso_custom_keystore_file='/path/to/sso.jks'

    # This install will deploy SSO with sso_use_https=True
    # Keystore password is required for https enabled SSO
    sso_keystore_password=''

    # This install will deploy a TLS enabled Automation Hub.
    # If for some reason this is not the behavior wanted one can
    # disable TLS enabled deployment.
    #
    # automationhub_disable_https = False
    # The default install will generate self-signed certificates for the Automation
    # Hub service. If you are providing valid certificate via automationhub_ssl_cert
    # and automationhub_ssl_key, one should toggle that value to True.
    #
    # automationhub_ssl_validate_certs = False
    # SSL-related variables
    # If set, this will install a custom CA certificate to the system trust store.
    # custom_ca_cert=/path/to/ca.crt
    # Certificate and key to install in Automation Hub node
    # automationhub_ssl_cert=/path/to/automationhub.cert
    # automationhub_ssl_key=/path/to/automationhub.key

    # Automation Gateway configuration
    automationgateway_admin_password=''

    automationgateway_pg_host=''
    automationgateway_pg_port=5432

    automationgateway_pg_database='automationgateway'
    automationgateway_pg_username='automationgateway'
    automationgateway_pg_password=''
    automationgateway_pg_sslmode='prefer'

    # The main automation gateway URL that clients will connect to (e.g. https://<load balancer host>).
    # If not specified, the first node in the [automationgateway] group will be used when needed.
    # automationgateway_main_url = ''

    # Certificate and key to install in Automation Gateway
    # automationgateway_ssl_cert=/path/to/automationgateway.cert
    # automationgateway_ssl_key=/path/to/automationgateway.key

    # Certificate and key to install in nginx for the web UI and API
    # web_server_ssl_cert=/path/to/tower.cert
    # web_server_ssl_key=/path/to/tower.key
    # Server-side SSL settings for PostgreSQL (when we are installing it).
    # postgres_use_ssl=False
    # postgres_ssl_cert=/path/to/pgsql.crt
    # postgres_ssl_key=/path/to/pgsql.key

    # Boolean flag used to verify Automation Controller's
    # web certificates when making calls from Automation Event-Driven Ansible controller.
    # automationedacontroller_controller_verify_ssl = true
    #
    # Certificate and key to install in Automation Event-Driven Ansible controller node
    # automationedacontroller_ssl_cert=/path/to/automationeda.crt
    # automationedacontroller_ssl_key=/path/to/automationeda.key

**Additional resources**

- [Ansible automation hub variables](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/appendix-inventory-files-vars#hub-variables).

#### 4.3.1.4. Installing high availability automation hub

Configure inventory files to install a highly available automation hub with clustered nodes and dedicated database hosts. This clustered setup uses load balancing to support enterprise-scale automation and ensures consistent system uptime.

You can configure your HA deployment further to enable a [high availability deployment of automation hub on SELinux](#proc-install-ha-hub-selinux "4.3.1.5.&nbsp;Enabling a high availability (HA) deployment of automation hub on SELinux").

**Procedure**

- Specify the IP address for your database host, using the `automation_pg_host` and `automation_pg_port` inventory variables. For example:

    automationhub_pg_host='192.0.2.10'
    automationhub_pg_port=5432

- Also specify the IP address for your database host in the [database] section, using the value in the `automationhub_pg_host` inventory variable:

    [database]
    192.0.2.10

- If installing a clustered setup, replace `localhost ansible_connection=local` in the `[automationhub]` section with the hostname or IP of all instances. For example:

    [automationhub]
    automationhub1.testing.ansible.com ansible_user=cloud-user
    automationhub2.testing.ansible.com ansible_user=cloud-user
    automationhub3.testing.ansible.com ansible_user=cloud-user

**Next steps**

Check that the following directives are present in `/etc/pulp/settings.py` in each of the private automation hub servers:

    USE_X_FORWARDED_PORT = True
    USE_X_FORWARDED_HOST = True

Note

If you are using a load balancer, configure `automationgateway_main_url` to point to your load balancer. If `automationgateway_main_url` is not specified, the first node in the [automationgateway] group will be used as default.

#### 4.3.1.5. Enabling a high availability (HA) deployment of automation hub on SELinux

Enable a high availability (HA) deployment of automation hub on SELinux by creating and mounting the required `/var/lib/pulp` directories on an external NFS export. This process ensures that the appropriate SELinux security contexts are correctly applied to the mount points, fulfilling the prerequisites for a successful Ansible Automation Platform installation in this specialized environment.

Note

You must add the context for `/var/lib/pulp` pulpcore_static and run the Ansible Automation Platform installer before adding the context for `/var/lib/pulp`.

**Prerequisites**

- You have already configured a NFS export on your server.

  
  Note
      The NFS share is hosted on an external server and is not a part of high availability automation hub deployment.

**Procedure**

1. Create a mount point at `/var/lib/pulp`:

    $ mkdir /var/lib/pulp/

2. Open `/etc/fstab` using a text editor, then add the following values:

    srv_rhel8:/data /var/lib/pulp nfs defaults,_netdev,nosharecache,context="system_u:object_r:var_lib_t:s0" 0 0
    srv_rhel8:/data/pulpcore_static /var/lib/pulp/pulpcore_static nfs defaults,_netdev,nosharecache,context="system_u:object_r:httpd_sys_content_rw_t:s0" 0 0

3. Run the reload systemd manager configuration command:

    $ systemctl daemon-reload

4. Run the mount command for `/var/lib/pulp`:

    $ mount /var/lib/pulp

5. Create a mount point at `/var/lib/pulp/pulpcore_static`:

    $ mkdir /var/lib/pulp/pulpcore_static

6. Run the mount command:

    $ mount -a

7. With the mount points set up, run the Ansible Automation Platform installer:

    $ setup.sh -- -b --become-user root

8. After the installation is complete, unmount the `/var/lib/pulp/` mount point.

**Next steps**

1. [Apply the appropriate SELinux context](#proc-apply-selinux-context "4.3.1.5.2.&nbsp;Applying the SELinux context").
2. [Configure the pulpcore.serivce](#proc-configure-pulpcore-service "4.3.1.5.1.&nbsp;Configuring pulpcore.service").

**Additional resources**

- [SELinux Requirements on the Pulp Project documentation](https://docs.pulpproject.org/en/2.16/user-guide/scaling.html#selinux-requirements)
- [Filesystem Layout](https://docs.pulpproject.org/pulpcore/installation/hardware-requirements.html#filesystem-layout)

##### 4.3.1.5.1. Configuring pulpcore.service

You can configure the `pulp` service to ensure that automation hub services start only after the network and the mounting of the remote mount points.

**Procedure**

1. With the two mount points set up, shut down the Pulp service to configure `pulpcore.service`:

    $ systemctl stop pulpcore.service

2. Edit `pulpcore.service` using `systemctl`:

    $ systemctl edit pulpcore.service

3. Add the following entry to `pulpcore.service` to ensure that automation hub services starts only after starting the network and mounting the remote mount points:

    [Unit]
    After=network.target var-lib-pulp.mount

4. Enable `remote-fs.target`:

    $ systemctl enable remote-fs.target

5. Reboot the system:

    $ systemctl reboot

**Troubleshooting**

A bug in the pulpcore SELinux policies can cause the token authentication public/private keys in `etc/pulp/certs/` to not have the proper SELinux labels, causing the pulp process to fail. When this occurs, run the following command to temporarily attach the proper labels:

    $ chcon system_u:object_r:pulpcore_etc_t:s0 /etc/pulp/certs/token_{private,public}_key.pem

Repeat this command to reattach the proper SELinux labels whenever you relabel your system.

##### 4.3.1.5.2. Applying the SELinux context

By applying the necessary SELinux context to the Pulp directories you ensure proper file access permissions and security policy compliance. They are essential for enabling the high availability (HA) deployment of automation hub on SELinux.

**Procedure**

1. Shut down the Pulp service:

    $ systemctl stop pulpcore.service

2. Unmount `/var/lib/pulp/pulpcore_static`:

    $ umount /var/lib/pulp/pulpcore_static

3. Unmount `/var/lib/pulp/`:

    $ umount /var/lib/pulp/

4. Modify the `/etc/fstab` file as follows:

    srv_rhel8:/data /var/lib/pulp nfs defaults,_netdev,nosharecache,context="system_u:object_r:pulpcore_var_lib_t:s0" 0 0

5. Run the mount command:

    $ mount -a

#### 4.3.1.6. Configuring content signing on private automation hub

To successfully sign and publish Ansible Certified Content Collections, you must configure private automation hub for signing.

**Prerequisites**

- Your GnuPG key pairs have been securely set up and managed by your organization.
- Your public-private key pair has proper access for configuring content signing on private automation hub.

**Procedure**

1. Create a signing script that accepts only a filename.

  
  Note
      This script acts as the signing service and must generate an ascii-armored detached `gpg` signature for that file using the key specified through the `PULP_SIGNING_KEY_FINGERPRINT` environment variable.

    The script prints out a JSON structure with the following format.

    {"file": "filename", "signature": "filename.asc"}

    All the file names are relative paths inside the current working directory. The file name must remain the same for the detached signature.

    **Example:** The following script produces signatures for content:

    #!/usr/bin/env bash

        FILE_PATH=$1
    SIGNATURE_PATH="$1.asc"

        ADMIN_ID="$PULP_SIGNING_KEY_FINGERPRINT"
    PASSWORD="password"

        # Create a detached signature
    gpg --quiet --batch --pinentry-mode loopback --yes --passphrase \
       $PASSWORD --homedir ~/.gnupg/ --detach-sign --default-key $ADMIN_ID \
       --armor --output $SIGNATURE_PATH $FILE_PATH

        # Check the exit status
    STATUS=$?
    if [ $STATUS -eq 0 ]; then
       echo {\"file\": \"$FILE_PATH\", \"signature\": \"$SIGNATURE_PATH\"}
    else
       exit $STATUS
    fi

    After you deploy a private automation hub with signing enabled to your Ansible Automation Platform cluster, new UI additions are displayed in collections.

2. Review the Ansible Automation Platform installer inventory file for options that begin with `automationhub_*`.

    [all:vars]
    .
    .
    .
    automationhub_create_default_collection_signing_service = True
    automationhub_auto_sign_collections = True
    automationhub_require_content_approval = True
    automationhub_collection_signing_service_key = /abs/path/to/galaxy_signing_service.gpg
    automationhub_collection_signing_service_script = /abs/path/to/collection_signing.sh

    The two new keys (**automationhub_auto_sign_collections** and **automationhub_require_content_approval**) indicate that the collections must be signed and approved after they are uploaded to private automation hub.

#### 4.3.1.7. Adding a safe plugin variable to Event-Driven Ansible controller

When using `redhat.insights_eda` or similar plugins to run rulebook activations in Event-Driven Ansible controller, you must add a safe plugin variable to a directory in Ansible Automation Platform. This ensures connection between Event-Driven Ansible controller and the source plugin, and displays port mappings correctly.

**Procedure**

1. Create a directory for the safe plugin variable: `mkdir -p ./group_vars/automationedacontroller`

2. Create a file within that directory for your new setting (for example, `touch ./group_vars/automationedacontroller/custom.yml`)

3. Add the variable `automationedacontroller_additional_settings` to extend the default `settings.yaml` template for Event-Driven Ansible controller and add the `SAFE_PLUGINS` field with a list of plugins to enable. For example:

    automationedacontroller_additional_settings:
       SAFE_PLUGINS:
         - ansible.eda.webhook
         - ansible.eda.alertmanager

  
  Note
      You can also extend the `automationedacontroller_additional_settings` variable beyond `SAFE_PLUGINS` in the Django configuration file `/etc/ansible-automation-platform/eda/settings.yaml`.

### 4.3.2. Setting registry_username and registry_password

Create a new registry service account on the Red Hat Customer Portal to generate a named token and username. Use these credentials to set the `registry_username` and `registry_password` variables, which are essential for supporting online non-bundled installations in environments where credentials must be shared, such as deployment systems.

**Procedure**

1. Go to <https://access.redhat.com/terms-based-registry/accounts>.

2. On the **Registry Service Accounts** page click New Service Account.

3. Enter a name for the account using only the allowed characters.

4. Optionally enter a description for the account.

5. Click Create.

6. Find the created account in the list by searching for your name in the search field.

7. Click the name of the account that you created.

8. Alternatively, if you know the name of your token, you can go directly to the page by entering the URL:

    https://access.redhat.com/terms-based-registry/token/<name-of-your-token>

9. A **token** page opens, displaying a generated username (different from the account name) and a token.


  1. If no token is displayed, click Regenerate Token. You can also click this to generate a new username and token.

10. Copy the username (for example "1234567|testuser") and use it to set the variable `registry_username`.

11. Copy the token and use it to set the variable `registry_password`.

#### 4.3.2.1. Configuring Redis

Ansible Automation Platform offers a centralized Redis instance in both `standalone` and `clustered` topologies.

In RPM deployments, the Redis mode is set to `cluster` by default. You can change this setting in the inventory file `[all:vars]` section as in the following example:

    [all:vars]
    admin_password='<password>'
    pg_host='data.example.com'
    pg_port='5432'
    pg_database='awx'
    pg_username='awx'
    pg_password='<password>'
    pg_sslmode='prefer'  # set to 'verify-full' for client-side enforced SSL

    registry_url='registry.redhat.io'
    registry_username='<registry username>'
    registry_password='<registry password>'

    redis_mode=cluster

For more information about Redis, see [Caching and queueing system](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/ha-redis_planning) in *Planning your installation*.

## 4.4. Running the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform installer setup script

Run the installation program setup script after updating the inventory file with all the required parameters to begin the installation and configuration of the platform.

**RPM installer**

**Procedure**

- Run the `setup.sh` script

    $ sudo ./setup.sh

  
  Note
      If you are running the setup as a non-root user with `sudo` privileges, you can use the following command:

    $ ANSIBLE_BECOME_METHOD='sudo'
    ANSIBLE_BECOME=True ./setup.sh

    Installation of Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform will begin.

      **Next steps**

    If you want to add additional nodes to your automation mesh after the initial setup, edit the inventory file to add the new node, then rerun the `setup.sh` script.

    **Containerized installer**

    To install a containerized Ansible Automation Platform using the installation playbook, use the method described in [Install containerized Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/installing-containerized-aap)

## 4.5. Verifying installation of Ansible Automation Platform

Perform the verification step for your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform deployment by successfully logging into the platform. A successful login confirms that the installation is complete, ensuring your environment is ready for operational use.

**Procedure**

- Log in to Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.

Important

If the installation fails and you are a customer who has purchased a valid license for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform, contact Ansible through the [Red Hat Customer portal](https://docs.redhat.com/).

**Additional resources**

- [Getting started with Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/getting_started_with_ansible_automation_platform/index)

## 4.6. Adding a subscription manifest to Ansible Automation Platform

Before you first log in, you must add your subscription information to the platform. To add a subscription to Ansible Automation Platform, see [Obtaining a manifest file](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/assembly-gateway-licensing#assembly-aap-obtain-manifest-files) in the Containerized installation guide.

# Chapter 5. Horizontal scaling in Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform

You can set up multi-node deployments for components across Ansible Automation Platform. Whether you require horizontal scaling for Automation Execution, Automation Decisions, or automation mesh, you can scale your deployments based on your organization’s needs.

## 5.1. Horizontal scaling in Event-Driven Ansible controller

With Event-Driven Ansible controller, you can set up horizontal scaling for your events automation. This multi-node deployment enables you to define as many nodes as you prefer during the installation process. You can also increase or decrease the number of nodes at any time according to your organizational needs.

The following node types are used in this deployment:

API node type
Responds to the HTTP REST API of Event-Driven Ansible controller.

Worker node type
Runs an Event-Driven Ansible worker, which is the component of Event-Driven Ansible that not only manages projects and activations, but also executes the activations themselves.

Hybrid node type
Is a combination of the API node and the worker node.

The following example shows how you can set up an inventory file for horizontal scaling of Event-Driven Ansible controller on Red Hat Enterprise Linux VMs using the host group name `[automationedacontroller]` and the node type variable `eda_node_type`:

    [automationedacontroller]

    3.88.116.111 routable_hostname=automationedacontroller-api.example.com eda_node_type=api

    # worker node
    3.88.116.112 routable_hostname=automationedacontroller-api.example.com eda_node_type=worker

### 5.1.1. Sizing and scaling guidelines

Scaling guidelines for Event-Driven Ansible define how to properly size API nodes based on user requests and worker nodes based on automation activations. You can ensure independent scaling and optimized resource utilization for your environment by separating the node roles.

API nodes process user requests (interactions with the UI or API) while worker nodes process the activations and other background tasks required for Event-Driven Ansible to function properly. The number of API nodes you require correlates to the required number of users of the application and the number of worker nodes correlates to the required number of activations you want to run.

Since activations are variable and controlled by worker nodes, the supported approach for scaling is to use separate API and worker nodes instead of hybrid nodes due to the efficient allocation of hardware resources by worker nodes. By separating the nodes, you can scale each type independently based on specific needs, leading to better resource utilization and cost efficiency.

An example of an instance in which you might consider scaling up your node deployment is when you want to deploy Event-Driven Ansible for a small group of users who will run a large number of activations. In this case, one API node is adequate, but if you require more, you can scale up to three additional worker nodes.

### 5.1.2. Setting up horizontal scaling for Event-Driven Ansible controller

To scale up (add more nodes) or scale down (remove nodes), you must update the content of the inventory file to add or remove nodes and rerun the installation program.

**Procedure**

1. Update the inventory to add two more worker nodes:

    [automationedacontroller]

        3.88.116.111 routable_hostname=automationedacontroller-api.example.com eda_node_type=api

        3.88.116.112 routable_hostname=automationedacontroller-api.example.com eda_node_type=worker

        # two more worker nodes
    3.88.116.113 routable_hostname=automationedacontroller-api.example.com eda_node_type=worker

        3.88.116.114 routable_hostname=automationedacontroller-api.example.com eda_node_type=worker

2. Re-run the installer.

# Chapter 6. Disconnected installation

If you are not connected to the internet or do not have access to online repositories, you can install Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform without an active internet connection.

## 6.1. Ansible Automation Platform installation on disconnected RHEL

You can install Ansible Automation Platform without an internet connection by using the installer-managed database located on the automation controller. The setup bundle is recommended for disconnected installation because it includes additional components that make installing Ansible Automation Platform easier in a disconnected environment. These include the Ansible Automation Platform Red Hat package managers (RPMs) and the default execution environment (EE) images.

**Additional resources**

- [Inventory file variables](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/rpm_installation/appendix-inventory-files-vars)

### 6.1.1. System requirements for disconnected installation

Ensure that your system has all the hardware requirements before performing a disconnected installation of Ansible Automation Platform. You can find these in [system requirements](#platform-system-requirements "Chapter&nbsp;2.&nbsp;System requirements").

Before installing Ansible Automation Platform on a disconnected network, you must meet the following prerequisites:

- A subscription manifest that you can upload to the platform.

For more information, see [Obtaining a manifest file](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/assembly-gateway-licensing#assembly-aap-obtain-manifest-files).

- The Ansible Automation Platform setup bundle at [Customer Portal](https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/480/ver=2.6/rhel---9/2.6/x86_64/product-software) is downloaded.
- The [DNS records](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/collections/community/general/nsupdate_module.html) for the automation controller and private automation hub servers are created.

### 6.1.2. RPM Source

RPM dependencies for Ansible Automation Platform that come from the BaseOS and AppStream repositories are not included in the setup bundle. To add these dependencies, you must first obtain access to BaseOS and AppStream repositories. Use Satellite to sync repositories and add dependencies. If you prefer an alternative tool, you can choose between the following options:

- Reposync
- The RHEL Binary DVD

Note

The RHEL Binary DVD method requires the DVD for supported versions of RHEL. See [Red Hat Enterprise Linux Life Cycle](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/errata) for information on which versions of RHEL are currently supported.

**Additional resources**

- [Installing Satellite Server in a disconnected network environment](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_satellite/6.16/html/installing_satellite_server_in_a_disconnected_network_environment)

## 6.2. Synchronizing RPM repositories using reposync

To perform a reposync you need a Red Hat Enterprise Linux host that has access to the internet. After the repositories are synced, you can move the repositories to the disconnected network hosted from a web server.

When downloading RPM, ensure you use the applicable distro.

**Procedure**

1. Attach the BaseOS and AppStream required repositories:

    # subscription-manager repos \
        --enable rhel-9-for-x86_64-baseos-rpms \
        --enable rhel-9-for-x86_64-appstream-rpms

2. Perform the reposync:

    # dnf install yum-utils
    # reposync -m --download-metadata --gpgcheck \
        -p /path/to/download


  1. Use reposync with `--download-metadata` and without `--newest-only`. See [RHEL 8](//https://access.redhat.com/solutions/5186621) Reposync.


    - If you are not using `--newest-only,` the repos downloaded may take an extended amount of time to sync due to the large number of GB.
    - If you are using `--newest-only,` the repos downloaded may take an extended amount of time to sync due to the large number of GB.

    After the reposync is completed, your repositories are ready to use with a web server.

3. Move the repositories to your disconnected network.

## 6.3. Creating a new web server to host repositories

Create and configure a dedicated web server to host repositories for a disconnected environment. This procedure ensures local access to synchronized RPM packages and enables you to streamline content installation and updates on isolated systems.

**Procedure**

1. Install prerequisites:

    $ sudo dnf install httpd

2. Configure httpd to serve the repo directory:

    /etc/httpd/conf.d/repository.conf

        DocumentRoot '/path/to/repos'

        <LocationMatch "^/+$">
        Options -Indexes
        ErrorDocument 403 /.noindex.html
    </LocationMatch>

        <Directory '/path/to/repos'>
        Options All Indexes FollowSymLinks
        AllowOverride None
        Require all granted
    </Directory>

3. Ensure that the directory is readable by an apache user:

    $ sudo chown -R apache /path/to/repos

4. Configure SELinux:

    $ sudo semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_sys_content_t "/path/to/repos(/.*)?"
    $ sudo restorecon -ir /path/to/repos

5. Enable httpd:

    $ sudo systemctl enable --now httpd.service

6. Open firewall:

    $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=http –add-service=https --permanent
    $ sudo firewall-cmd --reload

7. On automation services, add a repo file at */etc/yum.repos.d/local.repo*, and add the optional repos if needed:

    [Local-BaseOS]
    name=Local BaseOS
    baseurl=http://<webserver_fqdn>/rhel-8-for-x86_64-baseos-rpms
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-redhat-release

        [Local-AppStream]
    name=Local AppStream
    baseurl=http://<webserver_fqdn>/rhel-8-for-x86_64-appstream-rpms
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-redhat-release

## 6.4. Accessing RPM repositories from a locally mounted DVD

In disconnected or air-gapped environments, you can install Ansible Automation Platform by using packages from a locally mounted RHEL DVD or ISO image. Learn how to mount the media and configure yum repositories to access BaseOS and AppStream packages for offline installation.

If you plan to access the repositories from the RHEL binary DVD, you must first set up a local repository.

**Procedure**

1. Mount DVD or ISO:


  1. DVD

    # mkdir /media/rheldvd && mount /dev/sr0 /media/rheldvd

  2. ISO

    # mkdir /media/rheldvd && mount -o loop rhrhel-8.6-x86_64-dvd.iso /media/rheldvd

2. Create yum repo file at `/etc/yum.repos.d/dvd.repo`

    [dvd-BaseOS]
    name=DVD for RHEL - BaseOS
    baseurl=file:///media/rheldvd/BaseOS
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-redhat-release

        [dvd-AppStream]
    name=DVD for RHEL - AppStream
    baseurl=file:///media/rheldvd/AppStream
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/RPM-GPG-KEY-redhat-release

3. Import the gpg key:

    # rpm --import /media/rheldvd/RPM-GPG-KEY-redhat-release

  
  Note
      If the key is not imported you will see an error similar to

    # Curl error (6): Couldn't resolve host name for
    https://www.redhat.com/security/data/fd431d51.txt [Could not resolve host:
    www.redhat.com]

**Additional resources**

- [Need to set up yum repository for locally-mounted DVD on Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/6913101)

## 6.5. Downloading and installing the Ansible Automation Platform setup bundle

Choose the setup bundle to download Ansible Automation Platform for disconnected installations. This bundle includes the RPM content for Ansible Automation Platform and the default execution environment images that will be uploaded to your private automation hub during the installation process.

**Procedure**

1. Download the Ansible Automation Platform setup bundle package by navigating to the [Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform download](https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/480/ver=2.6/rhel---9/2.6/x86_64/product-software) page and clicking Download Now for the Ansible Automation Platform 2.6 Setup Bundle.

2. On control node, untar the bundle:

    $ tar xvf \
       ansible-automation-platform-setup-bundle-2.6-1.tar.gz
    $ cd ansible-automation-platform-setup-bundle-2.6-1

3. Edit the inventory file to include variables based on your host names and desired password values.

**Additional resources**

- [3.2 Inventory file examples base on installation scenarios](#con-install-scenario-examples "4.3.&nbsp;Inventory file examples based on installation scenarios")

## 6.6. Completing post installation tasks

After you have completed the installation of Ansible Automation Platform, ensure that automation hub and automation controller deploy properly.

Before your first login, you must add your subscription information to the platform. To obtain your subscription information in uploadable form, see [Obtaining a manifest file](#assembly-aap-obtain-manifest-files "1.2.5.&nbsp;Obtaining a manifest file").

Once you have obtained your subscription manifest, see [Getting started with Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/getting_started_with_ansible_automation_platform) for instructions on how to upload your subscription information.

Now that you have successfully installed Ansible Automation Platform, to begin using its features, see the following guides for your next steps:

[Getting started with Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/getting_started_with_ansible_automation_platform).

[Managing automation content](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/managing_automation_content).

[Creating and using execution environments](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/creating_and_using_execution_environments).

# Chapter 7. Troubleshooting RPM installation of Ansible Automation Platform

Resolve common installation issues and errors that can occur when installing RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform. Learn how to generate diagnostic logs to identify problems.

## 7.1. Gathering Ansible Automation Platform logs

Gather configuration, diagnostic, and troubleshooting data from all nodes in your Ansible Automation Platform environment by running the setup script with the `-s` flag. This crucial procedure generates an sos report, which contains the detailed diagnostic information Red Hat Technical Support engineers require to analyze and resolve service requests efficiently.

**Procedure**

1. Access the installation program folder with the inventory file and run the installation program setup script the following command:

    `$ ./setup.sh -s`

    With this command, you can connect to each node present in the inventory, install the `sos` tool, and generate new logs.

  
  Note
      If you are running the setup as a non-root user with sudo privileges, you can use the following command:

    $ ANSIBLE_BECOME_METHOD='sudo'
    ANSIBLE_BECOME=True ./setup.sh -s

2. *Optional*: If required, change the location of the `sos` report files.

    The `sos` report files are copied to the `/tmp` folder for the current server. To change the location, specify the new location by using the following command:

    $ ./setup.sh -e 'target_sos_directory=/path/to/files' -s

    Where `target_sos_directory=/path/to/files` is used to specify the destination directory where the `sos` report will be saved. In this case, the `sos` report is stored in the directory `/path/to/files`.

3. Gather the files described on the playbook output and share with the support engineer or directly upload the `sos` report to Red Hat.

    To create an `sos` report with additional information or directly upload the data to Red Hat, use the following command:

    $ ./setup.sh -e 'case_number=0000000' -e 'clean=true' -e 'upload=true' -s

      **Table 7.1. Parameter Reference Table**

    | Parameter | Description | Default value |
    | --- | --- | --- |
    | <br> `case_number` | <br>  Specifies the support case number that you want. | <br>  - |
    | <br> `clean` | <br>  Obfuscates sensitive data that might be present on the `sos` report. | <br> `false` |
    | <br> `upload` | <br>  Automatically uploads the `sos` report data to Red Hat. | <br> `false` |
    To learn more about the `sos` report tool, see: [What is an SOS report and how to create one in Red Hat Enterprise Linux?](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/3592)

# Appendix A. Inventory file variables

The following tables contain information about the variables used in Ansible Automation Platform’s installation `inventory` files. The tables include the variables that you can use for RPM-based installation and container-based installation.

## A.1. Ansible variables

The following variables control how Ansible Automation Platform interacts with remote hosts.

**Table A.1. Ansible variables**

| Variable | Description |
| --- | --- |
| <br> `ansible_connection` | <br>  The connection plugin used for the task on the target host. This can be the name of any Ansible connection plugin. <br>  SSH protocol types are `smart`, `ssh`, or `paramiko`. You can also use `local` to run tasks on the control node itself. <br>  Default = `smart` |
| <br> `ansible_host` | <br>  The IP address or name of the target host to use instead of `inventory_hostname`. |
| <br> `ansible_password` | <br>  The password to authenticate to the host. <br>  Do not store this variable in plain text. Always use a vault. |
| <br> `ansible_port` | <br>  The connection port number. <br>  The default for SSH is `22`. |
| <br> `ansible_scp_extra_args` | <br>  This setting is always appended to the default `scp` command line. |
| <br> `ansible_sftp_extra_args` | <br>  This setting is always appended to the default `sftp` command line. |
| <br> `ansible_shell_executable` | <br>  This sets the shell that the Ansible controller uses on the target machine and overrides the executable in `ansible.cfg` which defaults to `/bin/sh`. |
| <br> `ansible_shell_type` | <br>  The shell type of the target system. <br>  Do not use this setting unless you have set the `ansible_shell_executable` to a non-Bourne (sh) compatible shell. By default commands are formatted using sh-style syntax. Setting this to `csh` or `fish` causes commands executed on target systems to follow the syntax of those shells instead. |
| <br> `ansible_ssh_common_args` | <br>  This setting is always appended to the default command line for `sftp`, `scp`, and `ssh`. Useful to configure a `ProxyCommand` for a certain host or group. |
| <br> `ansible_ssh_executable` | <br>  This setting overrides the default behavior to use the system `ssh`. This can override the `ssh_executable` setting in `ansible.cfg`. |
| <br> `ansible_ssh_extra_args` | <br>  This setting is always appended to the default `ssh` command line. |
| <br> `ansible_ssh_pipelining` | <br>  Determines if SSH `pipelining` is used. <br>  This can override the `pipelining` setting in `ansible.cfg`. If using SSH key-based authentication, the key must be managed by an SSH agent. |
| <br> `ansible_ssh_private_key_file` | <br>  Private key file used by SSH. <br>  Useful if using multiple keys and you do not want to use an SSH agent. |
| <br> `ansible_user` | <br>  The user name to use when connecting to the host. <br>  Do not change this variable unless `/bin/sh` is not installed on the target machine or cannot be run from sudo. |
| <br> `inventory_hostname` | <br>  This variable takes the hostname of the machine from the inventory script or the Ansible configuration file. You cannot set the value of this variable. Because the value is taken from the configuration file, the actual runtime hostname value can vary from what is returned by this variable. |

**Additional resources**

- [Reviewing your Ansible configuration with automation content navigator](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/using_content_navigator/assembly-review-config-navigator_installing-devtools)

## A.2. Automation hub variables

Inventory file variables for automation hub.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br> `automationhub_admin_password` | <br> `hub_admin_password` | <br>  Automation hub administrator password. Use of special characters for this variable is limited. The password can include any printable ASCII character except `/`, `”`, or `@`. | <br>  Required |  |
| <br> `automationhub_api_token` |  | <br>  Set the existing token for the installation program. For example, a regenerated token in the automation hub UI will invalidate an existing token. Use this variable to set that token in the installation program the next time you run the installation program. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationhub_auto_sign_collections` | <br> `hub_collection_auto_sign` | <br>  If a collection signing service is enabled, collections are not signed automatically by default. Set this variable to `true` to sign collections by default. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_backup_collections` |  | <br>  Ansible automation hub provides artifacts in `/var/lib/pulp`. These artifacts are automatically backed up by default. Set this variable to `false` to prevent backup or restore of `/var/lib/pulp`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationhub_client_max_body_size` | <br> `hub_nginx_client_max_body_size` | <br>  Maximum allowed size for data sent to automation hub through NGINX. | <br>  Optional | <br> `20m` |
| <br> `automationhub_collection_download_count` |  | <br>  Denote whether or not the collection download count should be displayed in the UI. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_collection_seed_repository` |  | <br>  Controls the type of content to upload when `hub_seed_collections` is set to `true`. Valid options include: `certified`, `validated` | <br>  Optional | <br>  Both certified and validated are enabled by default. |
| <br> `automationhub_collection_signing_service_key` | <br> `hub_collection_signing_key` | <br>  Path to the collection signing key file. | <br>  Required if a collection signing service is enabled. |  |
| <br> `automationhub_container_repair_media_type` |  | <br>  Denote whether or not to run the command `pulpcore-manager container-repair-media-type`. Valid options include: `true`, `false`, `auto` | <br>  Optional | <br> `auto` |
| <br> `automationhub_container_signing_service_key` | <br> `hub_container_signing_key` | <br>  Path to the container signing key file. | <br>  Required if a container signing service is enabled. |  |
| <br> `automationhub_create_default_collection_signing_service` | <br> `hub_collection_signing` | <br>  Set this variable to `true` to enable a collection signing service. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_create_default_container_signing_service` | <br> `hub_container_signing` | <br>  Set this variable to `true` to enable a container signing service. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `hub_data_path_exclude` | <br>  automation hub backup path to exclude. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
| <br> `automationhub_disable_hsts` | <br> `hub_nginx_disable_hsts` | <br>  Controls whether HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is enabled or disabled for automation hub. Set this variable to `true` to disable HSTS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_disable_https` | <br> `hub_nginx_disable_https` | <br>  Controls whether HTTPS is enabled or disabled for automation hub. Set this variable to `true` to disable HTTPS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_enable_api_access_log` |  | <br>  Controls whether logging is enabled or disabled at `/var/log/galaxy_api_access.log`. The file logs all user actions made to the platform, including username and IP address. Set this variable to `true` to enable this logging. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_enable_unauthenticated_collection_access` |  | <br>  Controls whether read-only access is enabled or disabled for unauthorized users viewing collections or namespaces for automation hub. Set this variable to `true` to enable read-only access. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_enable_unauthenticated_collection_download` |  | <br>  Controls whether or not unauthorized users can download read-only collections from automation hub. Set this variable to `true` to enable download of read-only collections. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_firewalld_zone` | <br> `hub_firewall_zone` | <br>  The firewall zone where automation hub related firewall rules are applied. This controls which networks can access automation hub based on the zone’s trust level. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = no default set. Container = `public`. |
| <br> `automationhub_force_change_admin_password` |  | <br>  Denote whether or not to require the change of the default administrator password for automation hub during installation. Set to `true` to require the user to change the default administrator password during installation. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_importer_settings` | <br> `hub_galaxy_importer` | <br>  Dictionary of settings to pass to the `galaxy-importer.cfg` configuration file. These settings control how the `galaxy-importer` service processes and validates Ansible content. Example values include: `ansible-doc`, `ansible-lint`, and `flake8`. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationhub_nginx_tls_files_remote` |  | <br>  Denote whether the web certificate sources are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br>  The value defined in `automationhub_tls_files_remote`. |
| <br> `automationhub_pg_cert_auth` | <br> `hub_pg_cert_auth` | <br>  Controls whether client certificate authentication is enabled or disabled on the automation hub PostgreSQL database. Set this variable to `true` to enable client certificate authentication. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_pg_database` | <br> `hub_pg_database` | <br>  Name of the PostgreSQL database used by automation hub. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `automationhub`. Container = `pulp` |
| <br> `automationhub_pg_host` | <br> `hub_pg_host` | <br>  Hostname of the PostgreSQL database used by automation hub. | <br>  Required | <br>  RPM = `127.0.0.1`. Container = no default. |
| <br> `automationhub_pg_password` | <br> `hub_pg_password` | <br>  Password for the automation hub PostgreSQL database user. Use of special characters for this variable is limited. The `!`, `#`, `0` and `@` characters are supported. Use of other special characters can cause the setup to fail. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationhub_pg_port` | <br> `hub_pg_port` | <br>  Port number for the PostgreSQL database used by automation hub. | <br>  Optional | <br> `5432` |
| <br> `automationhub_pg_sslmode` | <br> `hub_pg_sslmode` | <br>  Controls the SSL/TLS mode to use when automation hub connects to the PostgreSQL database. Valid options include `verify-full`, `verify-ca`, `require`, `prefer`, `allow`, `disable`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `prefer` |
| <br> `automationhub_pg_username` | <br> `hub_pg_username` | <br>  Username for the automation hub PostgreSQL database user. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `automationhub`. Container = `pulp`. |
| <br> `automationhub_pgclient_sslcert` | <br> `hub_pg_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS certificate file for automation hub. | <br>  Required if using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br> `automationhub_pgclient_sslkey` | <br> `hub_pg_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS key file for automation hub. | <br>  Required if using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br> `automationhub_pgclient_tls_files_remote` |  | <br>  Denote whether the PostgreSQL client certificate sources are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br>  The value defined in `automationhub_tls_files_remote`. |
| <br> `automationhub_require_content_approval` |  | <br>  Controls whether content signing is enabled or disabled for automation hub. By default when you upload collections to automation hub, an administrator must approve it before they are made available to users. To disable the content approval flow, set the variable to `false`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationhub_restore_signing_keys` |  | <br>  Controls whether or not existing signing keys should be restored from a backup. Set to `false` to disable restoration of existing signing keys. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationhub_seed_collections` | <br> `hub_seed_collections` | <br>  Controls whether or not pre-loading of collections is enabled. When you run the bundle installer, validated content is uploaded to the `validated` repository, and certified content is uploaded to the `rh-certified` repository. By default, certified content and validated content are both uploaded. If you do not want to pre-load content, set this variable to `false`. For the RPM-based installer, if you only want one type of content, set this variable to `true` and set the `automationhub_collection_seed_repository` variable to the type of content you want to include. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationhub_ssl_cert` | <br> `hub_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS certificate file for automation hub. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationhub_ssl_key` | <br> `hub_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS key file for automation hub. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationhub_tls_files_remote` | <br> `hub_tls_remote` | <br>  Denote whether the automation hub provided certificate files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationhub_use_archive_compression` | <br> `hub_use_archive_compression` | <br>  Controls whether archive compression is enabled or disabled for automation hub. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_archive_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationhub_use_db_compression` | <br> `hub_use_db_compression` | <br>  Controls whether database compression is enabled or disabled for automation hub. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_db_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationhub_user_headers` | <br> `hub_nginx_user_headers` | <br>  List of additional NGINX headers to add to automation hub’s NGINX configuration. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
| <br> `ee_from_hub_only` |  | <br>  Controls whether automation hub is the only registry for execution environment images. If set to `true`, automation hub is the exclusive registry. If set to `false`, images are also pulled directly from Red Hat. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` when using the bundle installer, otherwise `false`. |
| <br> `generate_automationhub_token` |  | <br>  Controls whether or not a token is generated for automation hub during installation. By default, a token is automatically generated during a fresh installation. If set to `true`, a token is regenerated during installation. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `hub_extra_settings` | <br>  Defines additional settings for use by automation hub during installation. <br>  For example:        hub_extra_settings=[{"setting": "REDIRECT_IS_HTTPS", "value": True}] | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
| <br> `nginx_hsts_max_age` | <br> `hub_nginx_hsts_max_age` | <br>  Maximum duration (in seconds) that HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is enforced for automation hub. | <br>  Optional | <br> `63072000` |
| <br> `pulp_secret` | <br> `hub_secret_key` | <br>  Secret key value used by automation hub to sign and encrypt data. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `hub_azure_account_key` | <br>  Azure blob storage account key. | <br>  Required if using an Azure blob storage backend. |  |
|  | <br> `hub_azure_account_name` | <br>  Account name associated with the Azure blob storage. | <br>  Required when using an Azure blob storage backend. |  |
|  | <br> `hub_azure_container` | <br>  Name of the Azure blob storage container. | <br>  Optional | <br> `pulp` |
|  | <br> `hub_azure_extra_settings` | <br>  Defines extra parameters for the Azure blob storage backend. For more information about the list of parameters, see [django-storages documentation - Azure Storage](https://django-storages.readthedocs.io/en/latest/backends/azure.html#settings). | <br>  Optional | <br> `{}` |
|  | <br> `hub_collection_signing_pass` | <br>  Password for the automation content collection signing service. | <br>  Required if the collection signing service is protected by a passphrase. |  |
|  | <br> `hub_collection_signing_service` | <br>  Service for signing collections. | <br>  Optional | <br> `ansible-default` |
|  | <br> `hub_container_signing_pass` | <br>  Password for the automation content container signing service. | <br>  Required if the container signing service is protected by a passphrase. |  |
|  | <br> `hub_container_signing_service` | <br>  Service for signing containers. | <br>  Optional | <br> `container-default` |
|  | <br> `hub_nginx_http_port` | <br>  Port number that automation hub listens on for HTTP requests. | <br>  Optional | <br> `8081` |
|  | <br> `hub_nginx_https_port` | <br>  Port number that automation hub listens on for HTTPS requests. | <br>  Optional | <br> `8444` |
| <br> `nginx_tls_protocols` | <br> `hub_nginx_https_protocols` | <br>  Protocols that automation hub will support when handling HTTPS traffic. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3]` |
|  | <br> `hub_pg_socket` | <br>  UNIX socket used by automation hub to connect to the PostgreSQL database. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `hub_s3_access_key` | <br>  AWS S3 access key. | <br>  Required if using an AWS S3 storage backend. |  |
|  | <br> `hub_s3_bucket_name` | <br>  Name of the AWS S3 storage bucket. | <br>  Optional | <br> `pulp` |
|  | <br> `hub_s3_extra_settings` | <br>  Used to define extra parameters for the AWS S3 storage backend. For more information about the list of parameters, see [django-storages documentation - Amazon S3](https://django-storages.readthedocs.io/en/latest/backends/amazon-S3.html#settings). | <br>  Optional | <br> `{}` |
|  | <br> `hub_s3_secret_key` | <br>  AWS S3 secret key. | <br>  Required if using an AWS S3 storage backend. |  |
|  | <br> `hub_shared_data_mount_opts` | <br>  Mount options for the Network File System (NFS) share. | <br>  Optional | <br> `rw,sync,hard` |
|  | <br> `hub_shared_data_path` | <br>  Path to the Network File System (NFS) share with read, write, and execute (RWX) access. The value must match the format `host:dir`, for example `nfs-server.example.com:/exports/hub`. | <br>  Required if installing more than one instance of automation hub with a `file` storage backend. When installing a single instance of automation hub, it is optional. |  |
|  | <br> `hub_storage_backend` | <br>  Automation hub storage backend type. Possible values include: `azure`, `file`, `s3`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `file` |
|  | <br> `hub_workers` | <br>  Number of automation hub workers. | <br>  Optional | <br> `2` |

## A.3. Automation controller variables

Inventory file variables for automation controller.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br> `admin_email` | <br> `controller_admin_email` | <br>  Email address used by Django for the admin user for automation controller. | <br>  Optional | <br> `admin@example.com` |
| <br> `admin_password` | <br> `controller_admin_password` | <br>  Automation controller administrator password. Use of special characters for this variable is limited. The password can include any printable ASCII character except `/`, `”`, or `@`. | <br>  Required |  |
| <br> `admin_username` | <br> `controller_admin_user` | <br>  Username used to identify and create the administrator user in automation controller. | <br>  Optional | <br> `admin` |
| <br> `automationcontroller_client_max_body_size` | <br> `controller_nginx_client_max_body_size` | <br>  Maximum allowed size for data sent to automation controller through NGINX. | <br>  Optional | <br> `5m` |
| <br> `automationcontroller_use_archive_compression` | <br> `controller_use_archive_compression` | <br>  Controls whether archive compression is enabled or disabled for automation controller. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_archive_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationcontroller_use_db_compression` | <br> `controller_use_db_compression` | <br>  Controls whether database compression is enabled or disabled for automation controller. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_db_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `awx_pg_cert_auth` | <br> `controller_pg_cert_auth` | <br>  Controls whether client certificate authentication is enabled or disabled on the automation controller PostgreSQL database. Set this variable to `true` to enable client certificate authentication. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `controller_firewalld_zone` | <br> `controller_firewall_zone` | <br>  The firewall zone where automation controller related firewall rules are applied. This controls which networks can access automation controller based on the zone’s trust level. | <br>  Optional | <br> `public` |
| <br> `controller_nginx_tls_files_remote` |  | <br>  Denote whether the web certificate sources are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br>  The value defined in `controller_tls_files_remote`. |
| <br> `controller_pgclient_tls_files_remote` |  | <br>  Denote whether the PostgreSQL client certificate sources are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br>  The value defined in `controller_tls_files_remote`. |
| <br> `controller_tls_files_remote` | <br> `controller_tls_remote` | <br>  Denote whether the automation controller provided certificate files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `nginx_disable_hsts` | <br> `controller_nginx_disable_hsts` | <br>  Controls whether HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is enabled or disabled for automation controller. Set this variable to `true` to disable HSTS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `nginx_disable_https` | <br> `controller_nginx_disable_https` | <br>  Controls whether HTTPS is enabled or disabled for automation controller. Set this variable to `true` to disable HTTPS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `nginx_hsts_max_age` | <br> `controller_nginx_hsts_max_age` | <br>  Maximum duration (in seconds) that HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is enforced for automation controller. | <br>  Optional | <br> `63072000` |
| <br> `nginx_http_port` | <br> `controller_nginx_http_port` | <br>  Port number that automation controller listens on for HTTP requests. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `80`. Container = `8080` |
| <br> `nginx_https_port` | <br> `controller_nginx_https_port` | <br>  Port number that automation controller listens on for HTTPS requests. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `443`. Container = `8443` |
| <br> `nginx_tls_protocols` | <br> `controller_nginx_https_protocols` | <br>  Protocols that automation controller supports when handling HTTPS traffic. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3]` |
| <br> `nginx_user_headers` | <br> `controller_nginx_user_headers` | <br>  List of additional NGINX headers to add to automation controller’s NGINX configuration. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
|  | <br> `controller_create_preload_data` | <br>  Controls whether or not to create preloaded content during installation. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `node_state` |  | <br>  The status of a node or group of nodes. Valid options include `active`, `deprovision` to remove a node from a cluster, or `iso_migrate` to migrate a legacy isolated node to an execution node. | <br>  Optional | <br> `active` |
| <br> `node_type` | <br>  See `receptor_type` for the container equivalent variable. | <br>  For the `[automationcontroller]` group the two options are:    <br> `node_type=control` - The node only runs project and inventory updates, but not regular jobs. `node_type=hybrid` - The node runs everything. <br>  For the `[execution_nodes]` group the two options are:    <br> `node_type=hop` - The node forwards jobs to an execution node. `node_type=execution` - The node can run jobs. | <br>  Optional | <br>  For `[automationcontroller]` = `hybrid`, for `[execution_nodes]` = `execution` |
| <br> `peers` | <br>  See `receptor_peers` for the container equivalent variable. | <br>  Used to indicate which nodes a specific host or group connects to. Wherever this variable is defined, an outbound connection to the specific host or group is established. This variable can be a comma-separated list of hosts and groups from the inventory. This is resolved into a set of hosts that is used to construct the `receptor.conf` file. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `pg_database` | <br> `controller_pg_database` | <br>  Name of the PostgreSQL database used by automation controller. | <br>  Optional | <br> `awx` |
| <br> `pg_host` | <br> `controller_pg_host` | <br>  Hostname of the PostgreSQL database used by automation controller. | <br>  Required |  |
| <br> `pg_password` | <br> `controller_pg_password` | <br>  Password for the automation controller PostgreSQL database user. Use of special characters for this variable is limited. The `!`, `#`, `0` and `@` characters are supported. Use of other special characters can cause the setup to fail. | <br>  Required if not using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br> `pg_port` | <br> `controller_pg_port` | <br>  Port number for the PostgreSQL database used by automation controller. | <br>  Optional | <br> `5432` |
| <br> `pg_sslmode` | <br> `controller_pg_sslmode` | <br>  Controls the SSL/TLS mode to use when automation controller connects to the PostgreSQL database. Valid options include `verify-full`, `verify-ca`, `require`, `prefer`, `allow`, `disable`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `prefer` |
| <br> `pg_username` | <br> `controller_pg_username` | <br>  Username for the automation controller PostgreSQL database user. | <br>  Optional | <br> `awx` |
| <br> `pgclient_sslcert` | <br> `controller_pg_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS certificate file for automation controller. | <br>  Required if using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br> `pgclient_sslkey` | <br> `controller_pg_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS key file for automation controller. | <br>  Required if using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br> `precreate_partition_hours` |  | <br>  Number of hours worth of events table partitions to pre-create before starting a backup to avoid `pg_dump` locks. | <br>  Optional | <br>  3 |
| <br> `uwsgi_listen_queue_size` | <br> `controller_uwsgi_listen_queue_size` | <br>  Number of requests `uwsgi` allows in the queue on automation controller until `uwsgi_processes` can serve them. | <br>  Optional | <br> `2048` |
| <br> `web_server_ssl_cert` | <br> `controller_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS certificate file for automation controller. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `web_server_ssl_key` | <br> `controller_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS key file for automation controller. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `controller_event_workers` | <br>  Number of event workers that handle job-related events inside automation controller. | <br>  Optional | <br> `4` |
|  | <br> `controller_extra_settings` | <br>  Defines additional settings for use by automation controller during installation. <br>  For example:        controller_extra_settings=[{"setting": "USE_X_FORWARDED_HOST", "value": True}] | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
|  | <br> `controller_license_file` | <br>  Path to the automation controller license file. |  |  |
|  | <br> `controller_percent_memory_capacity` | <br>  Memory allocation for automation controller. | <br>  Optional | <br> `1.0` (allocates 100% of the total system memory to automation controller) |
|  | <br> `controller_pg_socket` | <br>  UNIX socket used by automation controller to connect to the PostgreSQL database. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `controller_secret_key` | <br>  Secret key value used by automation controller to sign and encrypt data. | <br>  Optional |  |

## A.4. Database variables

Inventory file variables for the database used with Ansible Automation Platform.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br> `install_pg_port` | <br> `postgresql_port` | <br>  Port number for the PostgreSQL database. | <br>  Optional | <br> `5432` |
| <br> `postgres_extra_settings` | <br> `postgresql_extra_settings` | <br>  Defines additional settings for use by PostgreSQL. <br>  Example usage for RPM:        postgresql_extra_settings={'ssl_ciphers': 'HIGH:!aNULL:!MD5'}  <br>  Example usage for containerized:        postgresql_extra_settings=[{"setting": "ssl_ciphers", "value": "HIGH:!aNULL:!MD5"}] | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `postgres_firewalld_zone` | <br> `postgresql_firewall_zone` | <br>  The firewall zone where PostgreSQL related firewall rules are applied. This controls which networks can access PostgreSQL based on the zone’s trust level. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = no default set. Container = `public`. |
| <br> `postgres_max_connections` | <br> `postgresql_max_connections` | <br>  Maximum number of concurrent connections to the database if you are using an installer-managed database. For more information see [PostgreSQL database configuration and maintenance for automation controller](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/configuring_automation_execution/assembly-controller-improving-performance#ref-controller-database-settings). | <br>  Optional | <br> `1024` |
| <br> `postgres_ssl_cert` | <br> `postgresql_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS certificate file. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `postgres_ssl_key` | <br> `postgresql_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS key file. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `postgres_use_ssl` | <br> `postgresql_disable_tls` | <br>  Controls whether SSL/TLS is enabled or disabled for the PostgreSQL database. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `postgresql_admin_database` | <br>  Database name used for connections to the PostgreSQL database server. | <br>  Optional | <br> `postgres` |
|  | <br> `postgresql_admin_password` | <br>  Password for the PostgreSQL admin user. When used, the installation program creates each component’s database and credentials. | <br>  Required if using `postgresql_admin_username`. |  |
|  | <br> `postgresql_admin_username` | <br>  Username for the PostgreSQL admin user. When used, the installation program creates each component’s database and credentials. | <br>  Optional | <br> `postgres` |
|  | <br> `postgresql_effective_cache_size` | <br>  Memory allocation available (in MB) for caching data. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `postgresql_keep_databases` | <br>  Controls whether or not to keep databases during uninstall. This variable applies to databases managed by the installation program only, and not external (customer-managed) databases. Set to `true` to keep databases during uninstall. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `postgresql_log_destination` | <br>  Destination for server log output. | <br>  Optional | <br> `/dev/stderr` |
|  | <br> `postgresql_password_encryption` | <br>  The algorithm for encrypting passwords. | <br>  Optional | <br> `scram-sha-256` |
|  | <br> `postgresql_shared_buffers` | <br>  Memory allocation (in MB) for shared memory buffers. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `postgresql_tls_remote` | <br>  Denote whether the PostgreSQL provided certificate files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `postgresql_use_archive_compression` | <br>  Controls whether archive compression is enabled or disabled for PostgreSQL. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_archive_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |

## A.5. Event-Driven Ansible controller variables

Inventory file variables for Event-Driven Ansible controller.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_activation_workers` | <br> `eda_activation_workers` | <br>  Number of workers used for ansible-rulebook activation pods in Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = (# of cores or threads) * 2 + 1. Container = `2` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_admin_email` | <br> `eda_admin_email` | <br>  Email address used by Django for the admin user for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br> `admin@example.com` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_admin_password` | <br> `eda_admin_password` | <br>  Event-Driven Ansible administrator password. Use of special characters for this variable is limited. The password can include any printable ASCII character except `/`, `”`, or `@`. | <br>  Required |  |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_admin_username` | <br> `eda_admin_user` | <br>  Username used to identify and create the administrator user in Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br> `admin` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_backend_gunicorn_workers` |  | <br>  Number of workers for handling the API served through Gunicorn on worker nodes. | <br>  Optional | <br> `2` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_cache_tls_files_remote` |  | <br>  Denote whether the cache cert sources are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_client_regen_cert` |  | <br>  Controls whether or not to regenerate Event-Driven Ansible client certificates for the platform cache. Set to `true` to regenerate Event-Driven Ansible client certificates. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_default_workers` | <br> `eda_workers` | <br>  Number of workers used in Event-Driven Ansible for application work. | <br>  Optional | <br>  Number of cores or threads |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_disable_hsts` | <br> `eda_nginx_disable_hsts` | <br>  Controls whether HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is enabled or disabled for Event-Driven Ansible. Set this variable to `true` to disable HSTS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_disable_https` | <br> `eda_nginx_disable_https` | <br>  Controls whether HTTPS is enabled or disabled for Event-Driven Ansible. Set this variable to `true` to disable HTTPS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_event_stream_mtls` | <br> `eda_event_stream_mtls` | <br>  Controls whether event stream mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication is enabled or disabled for Event-Driven Ansible. Set this variable to `false` to disable mTLS authentication. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_event_stream_mtls_path` | <br> `eda_event_stream_mtls_prefix_path` | <br>  The prefix path for the event stream mTLS URLs. | <br>  Optional | <br> `/mtls/eda-event-streams` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_event_stream_path` | <br> `eda_event_stream_prefix_path` | <br>  API prefix path used for Event-Driven Ansible event-stream through platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br> `/eda-event-streams` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_firewalld_zone` | <br> `eda_firewall_zone` | <br>  The firewall zone where Event-Driven Ansible related firewall rules are applied. This controls which networks can access Event-Driven Ansible based on the zone’s trust level. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = no default set. Container = `public`. |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_gunicorn_event_stream_workers` |  | <br>  Number of workers for handling event streaming for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br> `2` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_gunicorn_workers` | <br> `eda_gunicorn_workers` | <br>  Number of workers for handling the API served through Gunicorn. | <br>  Optional | <br>  (Number of cores or threads) * 2 + 1 |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_http_port` | <br> `eda_nginx_http_port` | <br>  Port number that Event-Driven Ansible listens on for HTTP requests. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `80`. Container = `8082`. |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_https_port` | <br> `eda_nginx_https_port` | <br>  Port number that Event-Driven Ansible listens on for HTTPS requests. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `443`. Container = `8445`. |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_nginx_tls_files_remote` |  | <br>  Denote whether the web cert sources are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_pg_cert_auth` | <br> `eda_pg_cert_auth` | <br>  Controls whether client certificate authentication is enabled or disabled on the Event-Driven Ansible PostgreSQL database. Set this variable to `true` to enable client certificate authentication. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_pg_database` | <br> `eda_pg_database` | <br>  Name of the PostgreSQL database used by Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `automationedacontroller`. Container = `eda`. |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_pg_host` | <br> `eda_pg_host` | <br>  Hostname of the PostgreSQL database used by Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Required |  |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_pg_password` | <br> `eda_pg_password` | <br>  Password for the Event-Driven Ansible PostgreSQL database user. Use of special characters for this variable is limited. The `!`, `#`, `0` and `@` characters are supported. Use of other special characters can cause the setup to fail. | <br>  Required if not using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_pg_port` | <br> `eda_pg_port` | <br>  Port number for the PostgreSQL database used by Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br> `5432` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_pg_sslmode` | <br> `eda_pg_sslmode` | <br>  Determines the level of encryption and authentication for client server connections. Valid options include `verify-full`, `verify-ca`, `require`, `prefer`, `allow`, `disable`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `prefer` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_pg_username` | <br> `eda_pg_username` | <br>  Username for the Event-Driven Ansible PostgreSQL database user. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `automationedacontroller`. Container = `eda`. |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_pgclient_sslcert` | <br> `eda_pg_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS certificate file for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Required if using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_pgclient_sslkey` | <br> `eda_pg_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS key file for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Required if using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_pgclient_tls_files_remote` |  | <br>  Denote whether the PostgreSQL client cert sources are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_public_event_stream_url` | <br> `eda_event_stream_url` | <br>  URL for connecting to the event stream. The URL must start with the `http://` or `https://` prefix | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_redis_host` | <br> `eda_redis_host` | <br>  Hostname of the Redis host used by Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br>  First node in the `[automationgateway]` inventory group |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_redis_password` | <br> `eda_redis_password` | <br>  Password for Event-Driven Ansible Redis. | <br>  Optional | <br>  Randomly generated string |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_redis_port` | <br> `eda_redis_port` | <br>  Port number for the Redis host for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = The value defined in platform gateway’s implementation (`automationgateway_redis_port`). Container = `6379` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_redis_username` | <br> `eda_redis_username` | <br>  Username for Event-Driven Ansible Redis. | <br>  Optional | <br> `eda` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_secret_key` | <br> `eda_secret_key` | <br>  Secret key value used by Event-Driven Ansible to sign and encrypt data. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_ssl_cert` | <br> `eda_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS certificate file for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_ssl_key` | <br> `eda_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS key file for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_tls_files_remote` | <br> `eda_tls_remote` | <br>  Denote whether the Event-Driven Ansible provided certificate files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_trusted_origins` |  | <br>  List of host addresses in the form: `<scheme>//:<address>:<port>` for trusted Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) origins. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_use_archive_compression` | <br> `eda_use_archive_compression` | <br>  Controls whether archive compression is enabled or disabled for Event-Driven Ansible. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_archive_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_use_db_compression` | <br> `eda_use_db_compression` | <br>  Controls whether database compression is enabled or disabled for Event-Driven Ansible. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_db_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_user_headers` | <br> `eda_nginx_user_headers` | <br>  List of additional NGINX headers to add to Event-Driven Ansible’s NGINX configuration. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
| <br> `automationedacontroller_websocket_ssl_verify` |  | <br>  Controls whether or not to perform SSL verification for the Daphne WebSocket used by Podman to communicate from the pod to the host. Set to `false` to disable SSL verification. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `eda_node_type` | <br> `eda_type` | <br>  Event-Driven Ansible node type. Valid options include `api`, `event-stream`, `hybrid`, `worker`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `hybrid` |
|  | <br> `eda_debug` | <br>  Controls whether debug mode is enabled or disabled for Event-Driven Ansible. Set to `true` to enable debug mode for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `eda_extra_settings` | <br>  Defines additional settings for use by Event-Driven Ansible during installation. <br>  For example:        eda_extra_settings=[{"setting": "RULEBOOK_READINESS_TIMEOUT_SECONDS", "value": 120}] | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
|  | <br> `eda_nginx_client_max_body_size` | <br>  Maximum allowed size for data sent to Event-Driven Ansible through NGINX. | <br>  Optional | <br> `1m` |
|  | <br> `eda_nginx_hsts_max_age` | <br>  Maximum duration (in seconds) that HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is enforced for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br> `63072000` |
| <br> `nginx_tls_protocols` | <br> `eda_nginx_https_protocols` | <br>  Protocols that Event-Driven Ansible supports when handling HTTPS traffic. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3]` |
|  | <br> `eda_pg_socket` | <br>  UNIX socket used by Event-Driven Ansible to connect to the PostgreSQL database. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `redis_disable_tls` | <br> `eda_redis_disable_tls` | <br>  Controls whether TLS is enabled or disabled for Event-Driven Ansible Redis. Set this variable to true to disable TLS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `eda_redis_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the Event-Driven Ansible Redis certificate file. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `eda_redis_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the Event-Driven Ansible Redis key file. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `eda_safe_plugins` | <br>  List of plugins that are allowed to run within Event-Driven Ansible. <br>  For more information, see [Adding a safe plugin variable to Event-Driven Ansible controller](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/assembly-platform-install-scenario#proc-add-eda-safe-plugin-var). | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |

## A.6. General variables

General inventory file variables for Ansible Automation Platform.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br> `aap_ca_cert_file` | <br> `ca_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the user-provided CA certificate file. When you specify this variable, the installation program automatically generates TLS certificates for each Ansible Automation Platform service signed by this CA. You do not need to define individual service certificate variables (such as `gateway_tls_cert`, `controller_tls_cert`, or `hub_tls_cert`). For more information, see [Optional: Using custom TLS certificates](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/platform-system-requirements#proc-use-custom-tls-certificates_licensing-gw). | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `aap_ca_cert_files_remote` | <br> `ca_tls_remote` | <br>  Denote whether the CA certificate files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `aap_ca_cert_size` |  | <br>  Bit size of the internally managed CA certificate private key. | <br>  Optional | <br> `4096` |
| <br> `aap_ca_key_file` | <br> `ca_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the key file for the CA certificate provided in `aap_ca_cert_file` (RPM) and `ca_tls_cert` (Container). The installation program uses this key to sign the automatically generated TLS certificates for each Ansible Automation Platform service. For more information, see [Optional: Using custom TLS certificates](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/platform-system-requirements#proc-use-custom-tls-certificates_licensing-gw). | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `aap_ca_passphrase_cipher` |  | <br>  Cipher used for signing the internally managed CA certificate private key. | <br>  Optional | <br> `aes256` |
| <br> `aap_ca_regenerate` |  | <br>  Denotes whether or not to regenerate the internally managed CA certificate key pair. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `aap_service_cert_size` |  | <br>  Bit size of the component key pair managed by the internal CA. | <br>  Optional | <br> `4096` |
| <br> `aap_service_regen_cert` |  | <br>  Denotes whether or not to regenerate the component key pair managed by the internal CA. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `aap_service_san_records` |  | <br>  A list of additional SAN records for signing a service. Assign these to components in the inventory file as host variables rather than group or all variables. All strings must also contain their corresponding SAN option prefix such as `DNS:` or `IP:`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
| <br> `backup_dest` |  | <br>  Directory local to `setup.sh` for the final backup file. | <br>  Optional | <br>  The value defined in `setup_dir`. |
| <br> `backup_dir` | <br> `backup_dir` | <br>  Directory used to store backup files. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `/var/backups/automation-platform/`. Container = `~/backups` |
| <br> `backup_file_prefix` |  | <br>  Prefix used for the file backup name for the final backup file. | <br>  Optional | <br> `automation-platform-backup` |
| <br> `bundle_install` | <br> `bundle_install` | <br>  Controls whether or not to perform an offline or bundled installation. Set this variable to `true` to enable an offline or bundled installation. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` if using the setup installation program. `true` if using the setup bundle installation program. |
| <br> `bundle_install_folder` | <br> `bundle_dir` | <br>  Path to the bundle directory used when performing a bundle install. | <br>  Required if `bundle_install=true` | <br>  RPM = `/var/lib/ansible-automation-platform-bundle`. Container = `<current_dir>/bundle`. |
| <br> `custom_ca_cert` | <br> `custom_ca_cert` | <br>  Path to the custom CA certificate file. Use this variable when you have manually provided TLS certificates for Ansible Automation Platform services (such as `gateway_tls_cert`, `controller_tls_cert`, or `hub_tls_cert`) that are signed by a custom CA. <br>  This variable adds the CA certificate to the environment to ensure proper authentication and trust of the manually provided certificates. This variable is not needed when using `ca_tls_cert` and `ca_tls_key`, which automatically generate TLS certificates. For more information, see [Optional: Using custom TLS certificates](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/platform-system-requirements#proc-use-custom-tls-certificates_licensing-gw). | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `enable_insights_collection` |  | <br>  The default install registers the node to the Red Hat Lightspeed for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform for the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform Service if the node is registered with Subscription Manager. Set to `false` to disable this functionality. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `registry_password` | <br> `registry_password` | <br>  Password credential for access to the registry source defined in `registry_url`. For more information, see [Setting registry_username and registry_password](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/assembly-platform-install-scenario#proc-set-registry-username-password). | <br>  RPM = Required if you need a password to access `registry_url`. Container = Required for online installations if `registry_auth=true`. Not required for disconnected installations. |  |
| <br> `registry_url` | <br> `registry_url` | <br>  URL of the registry source from which to pull execution environment images. | <br>  Optional | <br> `registry.redhat.io` |
| <br> `registry_username` | <br> `registry_username` | <br>  Username credential for access to the registry source defined in `registry_url`. For more information, see [Setting registry_username and registry_password](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/assembly-platform-install-scenario#proc-set-registry-username-password). | <br>  RPM = Required if you need a password to access `registry_url`. Container = Required for online installations if `registry_auth=true`. Not required for disconnected installations. |  |
| <br> `registry_verify_ssl` | <br> `registry_tls_verify` | <br>  Controls whether SSL/TLS certificate verification is enabled or disabled when making HTTPS requests. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `restore_backup_file` |  | <br>  Path to the tar file used for the platform restore. | <br>  Optional | <br> `{{ setup_dir }}/automation-platform-backup-latest.tar.gz` |
| <br> `restore_file_prefix` |  | <br>  Path prefix for the staged restore components. | <br>  Optional | <br> `automation-platform-restore` |
| <br> `routable_hostname` | <br> `routable_hostname` | <br>  Used if the machine running the installation program can only route to the target host through a specific URL. For example, if you use short names in your inventory, but the node running the installation program can only resolve that host by using a FQDN. If `routable_hostname` is not set, it defaults to `ansible_host`. If you do not set `ansible_host`, `inventory_hostname` is used as a last resort. This variable is used as a host variable for particular hosts and not under the `[all:vars]` section. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `use_archive_compression` | <br> `use_archive_compression` | <br>  Controls at a global level whether the filesystem-related backup files are compressed before being sent to the host to run the backup operation. If set to `true`, a `tar.gz` file is generated on each Ansible Automation Platform host and then gzip compression is used. If set to `false`, a simple tar file is generated. <br>  You can control this functionality at a component level by using the `<component_name>_use_archive_compression` variables. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `use_db_compression` | <br> `use_db_compression` | <br>  Controls at a global level whether the database-related backup files are compressed before being sent to the host to run the backup operation. <br>  You can control this functionality at a component level by using the `<component_name>_use_db_compression` variables. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
|  | <br> `ca_tls_key_passphrase` | <br>  Passphrase used to decrypt the key provided in `ca_tls_key`. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `client_request_timeout` | <br>  Sets the HTTP timeout for end-user requests. The minimum value is `10` seconds. | <br>  Optional | <br> `30` |
|  | <br> `container_compress` | <br>  Compression software to use for compressing container images. | <br>  Optional | <br> `gzip` |
|  | <br> `container_keep_images` | <br>  Controls whether or not to keep container images when uninstalling Ansible Automation Platform. Set to `true` to keep container images when uninstalling Ansible Automation Platform. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `container_pull_images` | <br>  Controls whether or not to pull newer container images during installation. Set to `false` to prevent pulling newer container images during installation. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
|  | <br> `images_tmp_dir` | <br>  The directory where the installation program temporarily stores container images during installation. | <br>  Optional | <br>  The system’s temporary directory. |
|  | <br> `pcp_firewall_zone` | <br>  The firewall zone where Performance Co-Pilot related firewall rules are applied. This controls which networks can access Performance Co-Pilot based on the zone’s trust level. | <br>  Optional | <br>  public |
|  | <br> `pcp_use_archive_compression` | <br>  Controls whether archive compression is enabled or disabled for Performance Co-Pilot. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_archive_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
|  | <br> `registry_auth` | <br>  Controls whether to use registry authentication. When set to `true`, `registry_username` and `registry_password` are required. Not applicable for disconnected (bundled) installations. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
|  | <br> `registry_ns_aap` | <br>  Ansible Automation Platform registry namespace. | <br>  Optional | <br> `ansible-automation-platform-26` |
|  | <br> `registry_ns_rhel` | <br>  RHEL registry namespace. | <br>  Optional | <br> `rhel8` |
|  | <br> `setup_monitoring` | <br>  Set to `true` to enable Performance Co-Pilot for system performance monitoring and data collection on Ansible Automation Platform control plane nodes. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |

## A.7. Image variables

Inventory file variables for images.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br> `extra_images` |  | <br>  Additional container images to pull from the configured container registry during deployment. | <br>  Optional | <br> `ansible-builder-rhel8` |
|  | <br> `controller_image` | <br>  Container image for automation controller. | <br>  Optional | <br> `controller-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `de_extra_images` | <br>  Additional decision environment container images to pull from the configured container registry during deployment. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
|  | <br> `de_supported_image` | <br>  Supported decision environment container image. | <br>  Optional | <br> `de-supported-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `eda_image` | <br>  Backend container image for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br> `eda-controller-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `eda_web_image` | <br>  Front-end container image for Event-Driven Ansible. | <br>  Optional | <br> `eda-controller-ui-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `ee_extra_images` | <br>  Additional execution environment container images to pull from the configured container registry during deployment. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
|  | <br> `ee_minimal_image` | <br>  Minimal execution environment container image. | <br>  Optional | <br> `ee-minimal-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `ee_supported_image` | <br>  Supported execution environment container image. | <br>  Optional | <br> `ee-supported-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `gateway_image` | <br>  Container image for platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br> `gateway-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `gateway_proxy_image` | <br>  Container image for platform gateway proxy. | <br>  Optional | <br> `gateway-proxy-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `hub_image` | <br>  Backend container image for automation hub. | <br>  Optional | <br> `hub-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `hub_web_image` | <br>  Front-end container image for automation hub. | <br>  Optional | <br> `hub-web-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `pcp_image` | <br>  Container image for Performance Co-Pilot. | <br>  Optional | <br> `pcp:latest` |
|  | <br> `postgresql_image` | <br>  Container image for PostgreSQL. | <br>  Optional | <br> `postgresql-15:latest` |
|  | <br> `receptor_image` | <br>  Container image for receptor. | <br>  Optional | <br> `receptor-rhel9:latest` |
|  | <br> `redis_image` | <br>  Container image for Redis. | <br>  Optional | <br> `redis-6:latest` |

## A.8. Platform gateway variables

Inventory file variables for platform gateway.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br> `automationgateway_admin_email` | <br> `gateway_admin_email` | <br>  Email address used by Django for the admin user for platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br> `admin@example.com` |
| <br> `automationgateway_admin_password` | <br> `gateway_admin_password` | <br>  Platform gateway administrator password. Use of special characters for this variable is limited. The password can include any printable ASCII character except `/`, `”`, or `@`. | <br>  Required |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_admin_username` | <br> `gateway_admin_user` | <br>  Username used to identify and create the administrator user in platform gateway. The installation program uses this account to register services with platform gateway. If you have deleted the default `admin` user, set this variable to an existing system administrator account to avoid installation or upgrade failures. | <br>  Optional | <br> `admin` |
| <br> `automationgateway_cache_cert` | <br> `gateway_redis_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the platform gateway Redis certificate file. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_cache_key` | <br> `gateway_redis_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the platform gateway Redis key file. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_cache_tls_files_remote` |  | <br>  Denote whether the cache client certificate files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br>  The value defined in `automationgateway_tls_files_remote` which defaults to `false`. |
| <br> `automationgateway_client_regen_cert` |  | <br>  Controls whether or not to regenerate platform gateway client certificates for the platform cache. Set to `true` to regenerate platform gateway client certificates. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationgateway_control_plane_port` | <br> `gateway_control_plane_port` | <br>  Port number for the platform gateway control plane. | <br>  Optional | <br> `50051` |
| <br> `automationgateway_disable_hsts` | <br> `gateway_nginx_disable_hsts` | <br>  Controls whether HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is enabled or disabled for platform gateway. Set this variable to `true` to disable HSTS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationgateway_disable_https` | <br> `gateway_nginx_disable_https` | <br>  Controls whether HTTPS is enabled or disabled for platform gateway. Set this variable to `true` to disable HTTPS. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = The value defined in `disable_https` which defaults to `false`. Container = `false`. |
| <br> `automationgateway_firewalld_zone` | <br> `gateway_proxy_firewall_zone` | <br>  The firewall zone where platform gateway related firewall rules are applied. This controls which networks can access platform gateway based on the zone’s trust level. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = no default set. Container = 'public'. |
| <br> `automationgateway_grpc_auth_service_timeout` | <br> `gateway_grpc_auth_service_timeout` | <br>  Timeout duration (in seconds) for requests made to the gRPC service on platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br> `30s` |
| <br> `automationgateway_grpc_server_max_threads_per_process` | <br> `gateway_grpc_server_max_threads_per_process` | <br>  Maximum number of threads that each gRPC server process can create to handle requests on platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br> `10` |
| <br> `automationgateway_grpc_server_processes` | <br> `gateway_grpc_server_processes` | <br>  Number of processes for handling gRPC requests on platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br> `5` |
| <br> `automationgateway_http_port` | <br> `gateway_nginx_http_port` | <br>  Port number that platform gateway listens on for HTTP requests. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `8080`. Container = `8083`. |
| <br> `automationgateway_https_port` | <br> `gateway_nginx_https_port` | <br>  Port number that platform gateway listens on for HTTPS requests. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `8443`. Container = `8446`. |
| <br> `automationgateway_main_url` | <br> `gateway_main_url` | <br>  URL of the main instance of platform gateway that clients connect to. Use if you are performing a clustered deployment and you need to use the URL of the load balancer instead of the component’s server. The URL must start with `http://` or `https://` prefix. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_nginx_tls_files_remote` |  | <br>  Denote whether the web cert sources are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br>  The value defined in `automationgateway_tls_files_remote` which defaults to `false`. |
| <br> `automationgateway_pg_cert_auth` | <br> `gateway_pg_cert_auth` | <br>  Controls whether client certificate authentication is enabled or disabled on the platform gateway PostgreSQL database. Set this variable to `true` to enable client certificate authentication. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationgateway_pg_database` | <br> `gateway_pg_database` | <br>  Name of the PostgreSQL database used by platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `automationgateway`. Container = `gateway`. |
| <br> `automationgateway_pg_host` | <br> `gateway_pg_host` | <br>  Hostname of the PostgreSQL database used by platform gateway. | <br>  Required |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_pg_password` | <br> `gateway_pg_password` | <br>  Password for the platform gateway PostgreSQL database user. Use of special characters for this variable is limited. The `!`, `#`, `0` and `@` characters are supported. Use of other special characters can cause the setup to fail. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_pg_port` | <br> `gateway_pg_port` | <br>  Port number for the PostgreSQL database used by platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br> `5432` |
| <br> `automationgateway_pg_sslmode` | <br> `gateway_pg_sslmode` | <br>  Controls the SSL mode to use when platform gateway connects to the PostgreSQL database. Valid options include `verify-full`, `verify-ca`, `require`, `prefer`, `allow`, `disable`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `prefer` |
| <br> `automationgateway_pg_username` | <br> `gateway_pg_username` | <br>  Username for the platform gateway PostgreSQL database user. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = `automationgateway`. Container = `gateway` |
| <br> `automationgateway_pgclient_sslcert` | <br> `gateway_pg_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS certificate file for platform gateway. | <br>  Required if using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_pgclient_sslkey` | <br> `gateway_pg_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS key file for platform gateway. | <br>  Required if using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_pgclient_tls_files_remote` |  | <br>  Denote whether the PostgreSQL client cert sources are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br>  The value defined in `automationgateway_tls_files_remote` which defaults to `false`. |
| <br> `automationgateway_redis_host` | <br> `gateway_redis_host` | <br>  Hostname of the Redis host used by platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br>  First node in the `[automationgateway]` inventory group. |
| <br> `automationgateway_redis_password` | <br> `gateway_redis_password` | <br>  Password for platform gateway Redis. | <br>  Optional | <br>  Randomly generated string. |
| <br> `automationgateway_redis_username` | <br> `gateway_redis_username` | <br>  Username for platform gateway Redis. | <br>  Optional | <br> `gateway` |
| <br> `automationgateway_secret_key` | <br> `gateway_secret_key` | <br>  Secret key value used by platform gateway to sign and encrypt data. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_ssl_cert` | <br> `gateway_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS certificate file for platform gateway. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_ssl_key` | <br> `gateway_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS key file for platform gateway. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `automationgateway_tls_files_remote` | <br> `gateway_tls_remote` | <br>  Denote whether the platform gateway provided certificate files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `automationgateway_uwsgi_processes` | <br> `gateway_uwsgi_processes` | <br>  The number of `uwsgi` processes for the platform gateway container. The value is calculated based on the number of available vCPUs (virtual CPUs). | <br>  Optional | <br>  The number of vCPUs multiplied by two, plus one. |
| <br> `automationgateway_use_archive_compression` | <br> `gateway_use_archive_compression` | <br>  Controls whether archive compression is enabled or disabled for platform gateway. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_archive_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationgateway_use_db_compression` | <br> `gateway_use_db_compression` | <br>  Controls whether database compression is enabled or disabled for platform gateway. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_db_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationgateway_user_headers` | <br> `gateway_nginx_user_headers` | <br>  List of additional NGINX headers to add to platform gateway’s NGINX configuration. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
| <br> `automationgateway_verify_ssl` |  | <br>  Denotes whether or not to verify platform gateway’s web certificates when making calls from platform gateway to itself during installation. Set to `false` to disable web certificate verification. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br> `automationgatewayproxy_disable_https` | <br> `envoy_disable_https` | <br>  Controls whether or not HTTPS is disabled when accessing the platform UI. Set to `true` to disable HTTPS (HTTP is used instead). | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = The value defined in `disable_https` which defaults to `false`. Container = `false`. |
| <br> `automationgatewayproxy_http_port` | <br> `envoy_http_port` | <br>  Port number on which the Envoy proxy listens for incoming HTTP connections. | <br>  Optional | <br> `80` |
| <br> `automationgatewayproxy_https_port` | <br> `envoy_https_port` | <br>  Port number on which the Envoy proxy listens for incoming HTTPS connections. | <br>  Optional | <br> `443` |
| <br> `nginx_tls_protocols` | <br> `gateway_nginx_https_protocols` | <br>  Protocols that platform gateway will support when handling HTTPS traffic. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3]` |
| <br> `redis_disable_tls` | <br> `gateway_redis_disable_tls` | <br>  Controls whether TLS is enabled or disabled for platform gateway Redis. Set this variable to `true` to disable TLS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `redis_port` | <br> `gateway_redis_port` | <br>  Port number for the Redis host for platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br> `6379` |
|  | <br> `gateway_extra_settings` | <br>  Defines additional settings for use by platform gateway during installation. <br>  For example:        gateway_extra_settings=[{"setting": "OAUTH2_PROVIDER['ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRE_SECONDS']", "value": 600}] | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
|  | <br> `gateway_nginx_client_max_body_size` | <br>  Maximum allowed size for data sent to platform gateway through NGINX. | <br>  Optional | <br> `5m` |
|  | <br> `gateway_nginx_hsts_max_age` | <br>  Maximum duration (in seconds) that HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is enforced for platform gateway. | <br>  Optional | <br> `63072000` |
|  | <br> `gateway_uwsgi_listen_queue_size` | <br>  Number of requests `uwsgi` will allow in the queue on platform gateway until `uwsgi_processes` can serve them. | <br>  Optional | <br> `4096` |

## A.9. Receptor variables

Inventory file variables for Receptor.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br> `receptor_datadir` |  | <br>  The directory where receptor stores its runtime data and local artifacts. The target directory must be accessible to **awx** users. If the target directory is a temporary file system **tmpfs**, ensure it is remounted correctly after a reboot. Failure to do so results in the receptor no longer having a working directory. | <br>  Optional | <br> `/tmp/receptor` |
| <br> `receptor_listener_port` | <br> `receptor_port` | <br>  Port number that receptor listens on for incoming connections from other receptor nodes. | <br>  Optional | <br> `27199` |
| <br> `receptor_listener_protocol` | <br> `receptor_protocol` | <br>  Protocol that receptor will support when handling traffic. | <br>  Optional | <br> `tcp` |
| <br> `receptor_log_level` | <br> `receptor_log_level` | <br>  Controls the verbosity of logging for receptor. Valid options include: `error`, `warning`, `info`, or `debug`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `info` |
| <br> `receptor_tls` |  | <br>  Controls whether TLS is enabled or disabled for receptor. Set this variable to `false` to disable TLS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br>  See `node_type` for the RPM equivalent variable. | <br> `receptor_type` | <br>  For the `[automationcontroller]` group the two options are:    <br> `receptor_type=control` - The node only runs project and inventory updates, but not regular jobs. `receptor_type=hybrid` - The node runs everything. <br>  For the `[execution_nodes]` group the two options are:    <br> `receptor_type=hop` - The node forwards jobs to an execution node. `receptor_type=execution` - The node can run jobs. | <br>  Optional | <br>  For the `[automationcontroller]` group: `hybrid`. For the `[execution_nodes]` group: `execution`. |
| <br>  See `peers` for the RPM equivalent variable | <br> `receptor_peers` | <br>  Used to indicate which nodes a specific host connects to. Wherever this variable is defined, an outbound connection to the specific host is established. The value must be a comma-separated list of hostnames. Do not use inventory group names. <br>  This is resolved into a set of hosts that is used to construct the `receptor.conf` file. <br>  For more information, see [Adding execution nodes](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/advanced-configuration-containerized#adding-execution-nodes). | <br>  Optional | <br> `[]` |
|  | <br> `receptor_disable_signing` | <br>  Controls whether signing of communications between receptor nodes is enabled or disabled. Set this variable to `true` to disable communication signing. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `receptor_disable_tls` | <br>  Controls whether TLS is enabled or disabled for receptor. Set this variable to `true` to disable TLS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `receptor_firewall_zone` | <br>  The firewall zone where receptor related firewall rules are applied. This controls which networks can access receptor based on the zone’s trust level. | <br>  Optional | <br> `public` |
|  | <br> `receptor_mintls13` | <br>  Controls whether or not receptor only accepts connections that use TLS 1.3 or higher. Set to `true` to only accept connections that use TLS 1.3 or higher. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `receptor_signing_private_key` | <br>  Path to the private key used by receptor to sign communications with other receptor nodes in the network. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `receptor_signing_public_key` | <br>  Path to the public key used by receptor to sign communications with other receptor nodes in the network. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `receptor_signing_remote` | <br>  Denote whether the receptor signing files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `receptor_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the TLS certificate file for receptor. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `receptor_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the TLS key file for receptor. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `receptor_tls_remote` | <br>  Denote whether the receptor provided certificate files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
|  | <br> `receptor_use_archive_compression` | <br>  Controls whether archive compression is enabled or disabled for receptor. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_archive_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |

## A.10. Redis variables

Inventory file variables for Redis.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br> `redis_cluster_ip` | <br> `redis_cluster_ip` | <br>  The IPv4 address used by the Redis cluster to identify each host in the cluster. When defining hosts in the `[redis]` group, use this variable to identify the IPv4 address if the default is not what you want. Specific to container: Redis clusters cannot use hostnames or IPv6 addresses. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = Discovered IPv4 address from Ansible facts. If IPv4 address is not available, IPv6 address is used. Container = Discovered IPv4 address from Ansible facts. |
| <br> `redis_disable_mtls` |  | <br>  Controls whether mTLS is enabled or disabled for Redis. Set this variable to `true` to disable mTLS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `redis_firewalld_zone` | <br> `redis_firewall_zone` | <br>  The firewall zone where Redis related firewall rules are applied. This controls which networks can access Redis based on the zone’s trust level. | <br>  Optional | <br>  RPM = no default set. Container = `public`. |
| <br> `redis_hostname` |  | <br>  Hostname used by the Redis cluster when identifying and routing the host. By default `routable_hostname` is used. | <br>  Optional | <br>  The value defined in `routable_hostname` |
| <br> `redis_mode` | <br> `redis_mode` | <br>  The Redis mode to use for your Ansible Automation Platform installation. Valid options include: `standalone` and `cluster`. For more information about Redis, see [Caching and queueing system](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/planning_your_installation/ha-redis_planning) in *Planning your installation*. | <br>  Optional | <br> `cluster` |
| <br> `redis_server_regen_cert` |  | <br>  Denotes whether or not to regenerate the Ansible Automation Platform managed TLS key pair for Redis. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `redis_tls_cert` | <br> `redis_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the Redis server TLS certificate. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br> `redis_tls_files_remote` | <br> `redis_tls_remote` | <br>  Denote whether the Redis provided certificate files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br> `redis_tls_key` | <br> `redis_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the Redis server TLS certificate key. | <br>  Optional |  |
|  | <br> `redis_use_archive_compression` | <br>  Controls whether archive compression is enabled or disabled for Redis. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_archive_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |

## A.11. Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed variables

Configure Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed by setting inventory file variables during installation. Use this reference to determine which variables to set for your deployment requirements.

### A.11.1. Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed variables

Inventory file variables for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_admin_password` | <br>  Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed administrator password. Use of special characters for this variable is limited. The password can include any printable ASCII character except `/`, `"`, or `@`. | <br>  Required |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_admin_user` | <br>  Username used to identify and create the Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed admin user. | <br>  Optional | <br> `admin` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_chat_rate_throttle` | <br>  Chat rate throttle. | <br>  Optional | <br> `10/minute` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_nginx_client_max_body_size` | <br>  Maximum allowed size for data sent to Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed through NGINX. | <br>  Optional | <br> `5m` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_nginx_disable_hsts` | <br>  Controls whether HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is enabled or disabled for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. Set this variable to `true` to disable HSTS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_nginx_disable_https` | <br>  Controls whether HTTPS is enabled or disabled for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. Set this variable to `true` to disable HTTPS. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_nginx_hsts_max_age` | <br>  Maximum duration (in seconds) that HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS) is enforced for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. | <br>  Optional | <br> `63072000` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_nginx_http_port` | <br>  Port number that Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed listens on for HTTP requests. | <br>  Optional | <br> `8084` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_nginx_https_port` | <br>  Port number that Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed listens on for HTTPS requests. | <br>  Optional | <br> `8447` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_nginx_https_protocols` | <br>  Protocols that Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed will support when handling HTTPS traffic. | <br>  Optional | <br> `[TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3]` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_nginx_user_headers` | <br>  Custom Nginx headers. List of additional NGINX headers to add to Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed’s NGINX configuration. | <br>  Optional | <br>  [] |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_nginx_read_timeout` | <br>  Sets the HTTP timeout for end-user requests. The minimum value is `10` seconds. | <br>  Optional | <br> `3600` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_pg_cert_auth` | <br>  Controls whether client certificate authentication is enabled or disabled on the Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed PostgreSQL database. Set this variable to `true` to enable client certificate authentication. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_pg_database` | <br>  Name of the PostgreSQL database used by Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. | <br>  Optional | <br> `lightspeed` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_pg_host` | <br>  Hostname of the PostgreSQL database used by Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. | <br>  Required |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_pg_password` | <br>  Password for the Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed PostgreSQL database user. Use of special characters for this variable is limited. The `!`, `#`, `0` and `@` characters are supported. Use of other special characters can cause the setup to fail. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_pg_port` | <br>  Port number for the PostgreSQL database used by Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. | <br>  Optional | <br> `5432` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_pg_sslmode` | <br>  Controls the SSL mode to use when platform gateway connects to the PostgreSQL database. Valid options include `verify-full`, `verify-ca`, `require`, `prefer`, `allow`, `disable`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `prefer` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_pg_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS certificate file for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_pg_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the PostgreSQL SSL/TLS key file for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_pg_username` | <br>  Username for the Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed PostgreSQL database user. | <br>  Optional | <br> `lightspeed` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_secret_key` | <br>  Secret key value used by Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed to sign and encrypt data. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS certificate file for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS key file for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_tls_remote` | <br>  Denote whether the Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed provided certificate files are local to the installation program (`false`) or on the remote component server (`true`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_use_archive_compression` | <br>  Controls whether archive compression is enabled or disabled for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_archive_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_use_db_compression` | <br>  Controls whether database compression is enabled or disabled for Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed. You can control this functionality globally by using `use_db_compression`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |

### A.11.2. Ansible Lightspeed coding assistant variables

Inventory file variables for Ansible Lightspeed coding assistant.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_model_type` | <br>  IBM watsonx Code Assistant model deployment mode, cloud (`wca`) or on-premise (`wca-onprem`). | <br>  Optional | <br> `wca` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_model_url` | <br>  URL of the IBM watsonx Code Assistant model. For cloud deployment, the URL could be `https://api.dataplatform.test.cloud.ibm.com`. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_model_api_key` | <br>  API key of the IBM watsonx Code Assistant model that was generated during the model installation. | <br>  Required |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_model_id` | <br>  ID of the IBM watsonx Code Assistant model. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_model_verify_ssl` | <br>  Denotes whether or not to verify IBM watsonx Code Assistant’s web certificates when making calls from Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed to itself during installation. Set to `false` to disable web certificate verification. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_model_enable_anonymization` | <br>  Controls whether the anonymization of Personally Identifiable Information (PII) is enabled. PII information includes passwords, IP addresses, email addresses, and other sensitive data. <br>  When PII anonymization is enabled, users' personal information is modified to some generic values to protect their data and reduce the risk of data leaks. <br>  You can turn off the anonymization by specifying the value as `false` if you want to retain all original information as entered by users and improve the quality of the answers. <br>  If you set the value to `false` and the Ansible administrator is using Red Hat Ansible Lightspeed in hybrid mode (where the model is in IBM watsonx Code Assistant in IBM Cloud) then their users' PII is sent to IBM Cloud. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_model_username` | <br>  For on-premise deployment only. The username you use to connect to an IBM Cloud Pak for Data deployment. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_health_check` | <br>  Enables or disables IBM watsonx Code Assistant health check. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_idp_url` | <br>  For cloud deployment only. The IBM watsonx Code Assistant Identity Provider (IdP) URL. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_idp_login` | <br>  For cloud deployment only. The IBM watsonx Code Assistant Identity Provider (IdP) username. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_wca_idp_password` | <br>  For cloud deployment only. The IBM watsonx Code Assistant Identity Provider (IdP) password. | <br>  Optional |  |

### A.11.3. Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant variables

Inventory file variables for Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_chatbot_model_url` | <br>  The inference API base URL on your LLM setup. For example, `https://your_inference_api/v1`. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_chatbot_model_verify_ssl` | <br>  Controls whether SSL/TLS certificate verification is enabled or disabled when making HTTPS requests. | <br>  Optional | <br> `true` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_chatbot_default_provider` | <br>  The provider type of your LLM setup by using one of the following values:    <br>  Red Hat Enterprise Linux AI: `rhelai`  Red Hat OpenShift AI: `rhoai`  OpenAI: `openai`  Microsoft Azure OpenAI: `azure` | <br>  Optional | <br> `rhoai` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_chatbot_model_extra_settings` | <br>  Use this parameter to pass a JSON dictionary of extra parameters to pass directly to the model provider, for settings not covered by other standard fields. <br>  If you want to use Microsoft Azure OpenAI as the LLM provider, specify the value as `'{"api_type": ""}'`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `{}` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_chatbot_chatbot_max_tokens` | <br>  Maximum number of tokens to generate a chat response. | <br>  Optional | <br> `4096` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_chatbot_http_port` | <br>  Port number that Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant listens on for HTTP requests. | <br>  Optional | <br> `8085` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_chatbot_model_id` | <br>  The ID of the LLM model that is configured on your LLM setup. | <br>  Optional |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_chatbot_model_api_key` | <br>  The API token or the API key of your LLM setup. This token is sent along with the authorization header when an inference API is called. | <br>  Optional |  |

### A.11.4. Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant integration with MCP server variables

Inventory file variables for Ansible Lightspeed intelligent assistant integration with Model Context Protocol (MCP) server.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_mcp_controller_enabled` | <br>  Controls whether the Ansible Lightspeed MCP controller is enabled or disabled. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_mcp_controller_port` | <br>  Ansible Lightspeed MCP controller port. | <br>  Optional | <br> `8004` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_mcp_lightspeed_enabled` | <br>  Ansible Lightspeed MCP lightspeed enabled. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `lightspeed_mcp_lightspeed_port` | <br>  Ansible Lightspeed MCP lightspeed port. | <br>  Optional | <br> `8005` |

## A.12. Ansible MCP server variables

The following variables govern the access granted to Ansible MCP server.

| RPM variable name | Container variable name | Description | Required or optional | Default |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `mcp_allow_write_operations` | <br>  Determines whether the Ansible MCP server allows actions that modify state, such as launching jobs or updating templates through the external AI tool. <br>  By default, the variable’s value is set to `false`, so that the Ansible MCP server enables read-only operations and blocks all write operations. To enable the Ansible MCP server to perform write operations, change the value of the variable to `true`. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `mcp_ignore_certificate_errors` | <br>  Specifies whether to skip validation of SSL/TLS certificates when connecting to an MCP server over a secure transport (HTTPS/WSS). <br>  Set this parameter value to `true` to allow connections to servers with self-signed, expired, or otherwise untrusted certificates, primarily during local development or internal testing. | <br>  Optional | <br> `false` |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `mcp_tls_cert` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS certificate file for the Ansible MCP server. | <br>  Required if using client certificate authentication. |  |
| <br>  N/A | <br> `mcp_tls_key` | <br>  Path to the SSL/TLS key file for the Ansible MCP server. | <br>  Required if using client certificate authentication. |  |

# Legal Notice

Copyright © Red Hat.

Except as otherwise noted below, the text of and illustrations in this documentation are licensed by Red Hat under the Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 3.0 Unported license . If you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version.

Red Hat, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.

Red Hat, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, Hibernate, and RHCE are trademarks or registered trademarks of Red Hat, LLC. or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.

Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries.

XFS is a trademark or registered trademark of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.

The OpenStack® Word Mark and OpenStack logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of the Linux Foundation, used under license.

All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
