+++
path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/operating_ansible_automation_platform/index"
title = "Operating Ansible Automation Platform - Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6"

[extra]
category = "Configure and Operate"
category_description = ""
document_kind = "documentation"
modified = "2026-02-11T14:23:52.000Z"
multi_page_path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/operating_ansible_automation_platform/index/"
name = "Operating Ansible Automation Platform"
page_slug = "operating_ansible_automation_platform"
product = "Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform"
product_version = "2.6"
reference_url = "https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/operating_ansible_automation_platform/index"
type = "single-page"
+++


<span id="idm140162031722896"></span>
Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform2.6
## Post installation configurations to ensure a smooth deployment of Ansible Automation Platform installation


Red Hat Customer Content Services

 [Legal Notice](#idm140162035190288) 
 **Abstract** 

This guide provides instructions and guidance on post installation activities for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.




---

# Preface




After installing Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform, your system might need extra configuration to ensure your deployment runs smoothly. This guide provides procedures for configuration tasks that you can perform after installing Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform.

 **Disclaimer** : Links contained in this information to external website(s) are provided for convenience only. Red Hat has not reviewed the links and is not responsible for the content or its availability. The inclusion of any link to an external website does not imply endorsement by Red Hat of the website or their entities, products or services. You agree that Red Hat is not responsible or liable for any loss or expenses that may result due to your use of (or reliance on) the external site or content.

# Providing feedback on Red Hat documentation




If you have a suggestion to improve this documentation, or find an error, you can contact technical support at [https://access.redhat.com](https://access.redhat.com) to open a request.

# Chapter 1. Activating Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform




Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform uses available subscriptions or a subscription manifest to allow the use of Ansible Automation Platform.

To obtain a subscription, you can do either of the following:

1. Use your Red Hat username and password, service account credentials, or Satellite credentials when you launch Ansible Automation Platform.
1. Upload a subscriptions manifest file either using the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform interface or manually in an Ansible Playbook.


# Chapter 2. Configuring proxy support for Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform




You can configure Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform to communicate with traffic by using a proxy. Proxy servers act as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from other servers.

A client connects to the proxy server, requesting some service or available resource from a different server, and the proxy server evaluates the request as a way to simplify and control its complexity. The following sections describe the supported proxy configurations and how to set them up.

## 2.1. Enabling proxy support through a load balancer




A proxy server acts as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from other servers. There are two types of proxy servers: forward proxies and reverse proxies.

A forward proxy deals with client traffic, regulating and securing it. To provide proxy server support, automation controller handles proxied requests (such as ALB, NLB , HAProxy, Squid, Nginx and tinyproxy in front of automation controller) using the **REMOTE_HOST_HEADERS** list variable in the automation controller settings. By default, **REMOTE_HOST_HEADERS** is set to `["REMOTE_ADDR", "REMOTE_HOST"]` .

To enable proxy server support, edit the **REMOTE_HOST_HEADERS** field in the settings page for your automation controller:

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectSettings→Automation Execution→System.
1. ClickEdit
1. In the **Remote Host Headers** field, enter the following values:
    
    
    ```
    [      "HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR",      "REMOTE_ADDR",      "REMOTE_HOST"    ]
    ```
    
    
1. ClickSaveto save your settings.
    
    Automation controller determines the remote host’s IP address by searching through the list of headers in **Remote Host Headers** until the first IP address is located.
    
    


## 2.2. Known proxies




When automation controller is configured with `REMOTE_HOST_HEADERS = ['HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR', 'REMOTE_ADDR', 'REMOTE_HOST']` , it assumes that the value of `X-Forwarded-For` has originated from the load balancer sitting in front of automation controller.

If automation controller is reachable without use of the load balancer, or if the proxy does not validate the header, the value of `X-Forwarded-For` can be falsified to fake the originating IP addresses.

Using `HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR` in the `REMOTE_HOST_HEADERS` setting poses a vulnerability.

To avoid this, you can configure a list of known proxies that are allowed.

- From the navigation panel, selectSettings→Automation Execution→System.
- Enter a list of proxy IP addresses from which the service should trust custom remote header values in the **Proxy IP Allowed List** field.
    
    Note
    Load balancers and hosts that are not on the known proxies list result in a rejected request.
    
    
    
    


### 2.2.1. Configuring known proxies




Learn how to configure a list of known proxies for your automation controller, add the proxy IP addresses to the **Proxy IP Allowed List** field in the System Settings page.

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectSettings→Automation Execution→System.
1. In the **Proxy IP Allowed List** field, enter IP addresses that are permitted to connect to your automation controller, using the syntax in the following example:
    
     **Example Proxy IP Allowed List** 
    
    


```
[
  "example1.proxy.com:8080",
  "example2.proxy.com:8080"
]
```

+

Important
-  **Proxy IP Allowed List** requires proxies in the list are properly sanitizing header input and correctly setting an `    X-Forwarded-For` value equal to the real source IP of the client. Automation controller can rely on the IP addresses and hostnames in **Proxy IP Allowed List** to provide non-spoofed values for `    X-Forwarded-For` .
- Do not configure `    HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR` as an item in **Remote Host Headers** unless **all** of the following conditions are satisfied:
    
    
    - You are using a proxied environment with ssl termination;
    - The proxy provides sanitization or validation of the `        X-Forwarded-For` header to prevent client spoofing;
    -  `        /etc/tower/conf.d/remote_host_headers.py` defines `        PROXY_IP_ALLOWED_LIST` that contains only the originating IP addresses of trusted proxies or load balancers.
    




+ . ClickSaveto save the settings.

## 2.3. Configuring a reverse proxy through a load balancer




A reverse proxy manages external requests to servers, offering load balancing and concealing server identities for added security. You can support a reverse proxy server configuration by adding `HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR` to the **Remote Host Headers** field in the Systems Settings. The `X-Forwarded-For` (XFF) HTTP header field identifies the originating IP address of a client connecting to a web server through an HTTP proxy or load balancer.

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectSettings→Automation Execution→System.
1. In the **Remote Host Headers** field, enter the following values:
    
    
    ```
    [      "HTTP_X_FORWARDED_FOR",      "REMOTE_ADDR",      "REMOTE_HOST"    ]
    ```
    
    
1. Add the lines below to `    /etc/tower/conf.d/custom.py` to ensure the application uses the correct headers:
    
    
    ```
    USE_X_FORWARDED_PORT = True    USE_X_FORWARDED_HOST = True
    ```
    
    
1. ClickSaveto save the settings.


## 2.4. Enable sticky sessions




By default, an application load balancer routes each request independently to a registered target based on the chosen load balancing algorithm.

To avoid authentication errors when running multiple instances of automation hub behind a load balancer, you must enable sticky sessions. Enabling sticky sessions sets a custom application cookie that matches the cookie configured on the load balancer to enable stickiness. This custom cookie can include any of the cookie attributes required by the application.

## 2.5. Additional resources




-  [Sticky sessions for your Application Load Balancer](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/sticky-sessions.html) 


# Chapter 3. Configuring Ansible Automation Platform to use egress proxy




You can deploy Ansible Automation Platform so that egress from the platform for various purposes functions properly through proxy servers.

Egress proxy allows clients to make indirect (through a proxy server) requests to network services.

The client first connects to the proxy server and requests some resource, for example, email, located on another server. The proxy server then connects to the specified server and retrieves the resource from it.

## 3.1. Overview




The egress proxy should be configured on the system and component level of Ansible Automation Platform, for all the RPM and containerized installation methods. For containerized installers, the system proxy configuration for Podman on the nodes solves most of the problems with access through the proxy. For RPM installation, both system and component configurations are needed.

### 3.1.1. Proxy backends




For HTTP and HTTPS proxies you can use a squid server. Squid is a forward proxy for the Web supporting HTTP, HTTPS, and FTP, reducing bandwidth and improving response times by caching and reusing frequently-requested web pages. It is licensed under the GNU GPL.

Forward proxies are systems that intercept network traffic going to another network (typically the internet) and send it on the behalf of the internal systems. The squid proxy enables all required communication to pass through it.

Make sure all the required Ansible Automation Platform control plane ports are opened on the squid proxy backend. Ansible Automation Platform-specific ports:

```
acl Safe_ports port 81
acl Safe_ports port 82
acl Safe_ports port 389
acl Safe_ports port 444
acl Safe_ports port 445
acl SSL_ports port 22
```

The following ports are for containerized installations:

```
acl SSL_ports port 444
acl SSL_ports port 445
acl SSL_ports port 8443
acl SSL_ports port 8444
acl SSL_ports port 8445
acl SSL_ports port 8446
acl SSL_ports port 44321
acl SSL_ports port 44322

http_access deny !Safe_ports
http_access deny CONNECT !SSL_ports
```

## 3.2. System proxy configuration




An outbound proxy (egress proxy) is a server that acts as an intermediary for requests from clients seeking resources from other servers on the internet. It is used to regulate and secure client traffic, and to provide caching services to improve performance.

The outbound proxy is configured on the system level for all the nodes in the control plane.

You must set the following environment variables:

```
http_proxy=“http://external-proxy_0:3128”
https_proxy=“http://external-proxy_0:3128”
no_proxy=“localhost,127.0.0.0/8,10.0.0.0/8”
```

You can also add those variables to the '/etc/environment' file to make them permanent.

The installation program ensures that all external communication during the installation goes through the proxy. For containerized installation, those variables ensure that Podman uses the egress proxy.

## 3.3. Automation controller settings




After using the RPM installation program, you must configure automation controller to use egress proxy.

Note
This is not required for containerized installers because Podman uses system configured proxy and redirects all the container traffic to the proxy.



For automation controller, set the `AWX_TASK_ENV` variable in `/api/v2/settings/` . To do this through the UI use the following procedure:

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectSettings→Automation Execution→Job.
1. ClickEdit.
1. Add the variables to the **Extra Environment Variables** field
    
    and set:
    
    
    ```
    "AWX_TASK_ENV": {    "http_proxy": "http://external-proxy_0:3128",    "https_proxy": "http://external-proxy_0:3128",    "no_proxy": "localhost,127.0.0.0/8"                    }
    ```
    
    


### 3.3.1. Configuring SCM project sync using SSH to work with a proxy in automation controller




The following procedure for RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform describes how to use automation controller Project Sync by using the SSH protocol to work with a proxy server.

 **Procedure** 

1. Perform the following steps on the automation controller nodes. If ansible-builder has not been installed yet, install it first.
    
    
    ```
    # subscription-manager repos --enable ansible-automation-platform-2.6-for-rhel-8-x86_64-rpms    # dnf install ansible-builder
    ```
    
    
1. Build a custom execution environment.
    
    
    1. First, create a work directory:
        
        
        ```
        # su - awx        $ mkdir -p builder/newee        $ cd builder/newee
        ```
        
        
    
1. Create an `    execution-environment.yml` file with the following content:
    
    
    ```
    version: 1        build_arg_defaults:      EE_BASE_IMAGE: 'registry.redhat.io/ansible-automation-platform-24/ee-supported-rhel8:latest'        additional_build_steps:      prepend:        - RUN microdnf install -y nc
    ```
    
    
1. Log in to registry.redhat.io.
    
    
    ```
    $ podman login registry.redhat.io
    ```
    
    
1. Run ansible-builder to start the building process.
    
    
    ```
    $ cd /var/lib/awx/builder/newee/    $ ansible-builder build -t my-env -v 3
    ```
    
    
1. Add the custom execution environment you created.
1. On the navigation panel, selectAutomation Execution→Infrastructure→Execution Environments.
1. ClickCreate execution environment.
1. In the **Image** field add `    localhost/my-env:latest` .
1. ClickCreate execution environment.
1. Re-run the Ansible Automation Platform installation program with the following steps to replace the execution environment from the default to the customized environment which will be used as a Project syncs.
    
    Note
    Backup Ansible Automation Platform before running the installation program.
    
    
    
    
    ```
    # ./setup.sh -b
    ```
    
    
1. Create an `    automationcontroller` file under the `    group_vars` directory in the same location as the `    setup.sh` file. The file contents are as follows:
    
    
    ```
    control_plane_execution_environment: localhost/my-env
    ```
    
    
1. Run `    setup.sh` 
    
    
    ```
    # ./setup.sh
    ```
    
    
1. Create `    ssh_config` under the directory. For example:
    
    
    ```
    Host github.com    Hostname ssh.github.com    ProxyCommand nc --proxy-type http --proxy proxy.example.com:port %h %p    User git
    ```
    
    
1. Add the `    ssh_config` file’s directory path in PATH to expose the isolated jobs so that the container execution environment can read `    ssh_config` file.
1. In the navigation panel, selectSettings→Automation Execution→Job.
1. ClickEdit.
1. If the `    ssh_config` file has been created as `    /var/lib/awx/.ssh/ssh_config` , add this to **Paths to expose to isolated jobs** 
    
    Note
    Ensure `    ssh_config` is owned by the AWX user. ( `    #chown awx:awx /var/lib/awx/.ssh/ssh_config` )
    
    
    
    
    ```
    [    "/var/lib/awx/.ssh:/etc/ssh:O"    ]
    ```
    
    


 **Additional resources** 

-  [Build an execution environment](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/using_automation_execution/assembly-controller-execution-environments#ref-controller-build-exec-envs) 


## 3.4. Enabling a configurable proxy environment for AWS inventory synchronization




To enable a configurable proxy environment for AWS inventory synchronization, you can manually edit the override configuration file or set the configuration in the platform UI:

1. Manually edit `    /usr/lib/systemd/system/receptor.service.d/override.conf` and add the following `    http_proxy` environment variables there:
    
    
    ```
    http_proxy:&lt;value&gt;    https_proxy:&lt;value&gt;    proxy_username:&lt;value&gt;    Proxy_password:&lt;value&gt;
    ```
    
    Or
    
    
1. To do this through the UI use the following procedure:


 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectSettings→Automation Execution→Job.
1. ClickEdit.
1. Add the variables to the **Extra Environment Variables** field
    
    For example: *
    
    


```
"AWX_TASK_ENV": {
        "no_proxy": "localhost,127.0.0.0/8,10.0.0.0/8",
        "http_proxy": "http://proxy_host:3128/",
        "https_proxy": "http://proxy_host:3128/"
                },
```

## 3.5. Configuring Proxy settings on automation hub




If your private automation hub is behind a network proxy, you can configure proxy settings on the remote to sync content located outside of your local network.

 **Prerequisites** 

- You have **Modify Ansible repo content** permissions. For more information on permissions, see [Access management and authentication](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/access_management_and_authentication) .
- You have a `    requirements.yml` file that identifies those collections to synchronize from Ansible Galaxy as in the following example:
    
     **Requirements.yml example** 
    
    


```
collections:
  # Install a collection from Ansible Galaxy.
  - name: community.aws
    version: 5.2.0
    source: https://galaxy.ansible.com
```

 **Procedure** 

1. Log in to Ansible Automation Platform.
1. From the navigation panel, selectAutomation Content→Remotes.
1. In the **Details** tab in the **Community** remote, clickEdit remote.
1. In the **YAML requirements** field, paste the contents of your `    requirements.yml` file.
1. ClickSave remote.


 **Result** 

You can now synchronize collections identified in your `requirements.yml` file from Ansible Galaxy to your private automation hub.


 **Next steps** 

See [Synchronizing Ansible content collections in automation hub](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/managing_automation_content/managing-cert-valid-content#assembly-synclists) for syncing steps.


## 3.6. Configuring proxy settings on Event-Driven Ansible




For Event-Driven Ansible, there are no global settings to set a proxy. You must specify the proxy for every project.

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectAutomation Decisions→Projects.
1. ClickCreate Project
    
    Use the **Proxy** field.
    
    


## 3.7. Configuring proxy settings for automation mesh




You can route outbound communication from the receptor on an automation mesh node through a proxy server. If your proxy does not strip out TLS certificates then an installation of Ansible Automation Platform automatically supports the use of a proxy server.

Every node on the mesh must have a Certifying Authority that the installation program creates on your behalf.

The default install location for the Certifying Authority is:

 `/etc/receptor/tls/ca/mesh-CA.crt` 

The certificates and keys created on your behalf use the nodeID for their names:

For the certificate: `/etc/receptor/tls/NODEID.crt` 

For the key: `/etc/receptor/tls/NODEID.key` 

## 3.8. Configure operator-based Ansible Automation Platform to use egress proxy




When installing Ansible Automation Platform using the operator-based installation method, you can configure the platform to use an egress proxy.

When creating an `automationcontroller` instance, select the YAML view and add `extra_settings` in the spec definition as the `AWX_TASK_ENV` parameter for the proxy settings, as follows:

+

```
apiVersion: automationcontroller.ansible.com/v1beta1
kind: AutomationController
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: ansible-automation-platform
spec:
  create_preload_data: true
  route_tls_termination_mechanism: Edge
  garbage_collect_secrets: false
  ingress_type: Route
  loadbalancer_port: 80
  no_log: true
  image_pull_policy: IfNotPresent
  projects_storage_size: 8Gi
  auto_upgrade: true
  task_privileged: false
  projects_storage_access_mode: ReadWriteMany
  set_self_labels: true
  projects_persistence: false
  replicas: 1
  admin_user: admin
  loadbalancer_protocol: http
  nodeport_port: 30080
  extra_settings:
    - setting: AWX_TASK_ENV
      value:
        HTTPS_PROXY: 'https://192.168.0.XXX:3128'
        HTTP_PROXY: 'https://192.168.0.XXX:3128'
        NO_PROXY: 10.0.0.0/8
        http_proxy: 'https://192.168.0.XXX:3128'
        https_proxy: 'https://192.168.0.XXX:3128'
        no_proxy: 10.0.0.0/8
```

### 3.8.1. Modification for a deployed instance




The configuration is stored as a ConfigMap resource. See it in the **OCP console > ConfigMaps > <instancename>-automationcontroller-configmap** .

To modify the settings after deployment, use the Operator.

After editing `extra_settings` , perform the deployment again. Go to **OCP console > Deployments > your instance > Decrease the Pod count > Increase the Pod count** . You can also redeploy it in the command line utility as follows:

```
$ oc scale --replicas=0 deployment.apps/&lt;instancename&gt; -n ansible-automation-platform deployment.apps/&lt;instancename&gt; scaled
$ oc scale --replicas=1 deployment.apps/&lt;instancename&gt; -n ansible-automation-platform deployment.apps/&lt;instancename&gt; scaled
```

 **Verification** 

See the settings in the Web UI at **Settings > Jobs settings > Extra Environment Variables** . If you need to set another value, you can define it in the same way. `extra_settings` settings is stored statically in the `/etc/tower/settings.py` file in the `automationcontroller` instance


# Chapter 4. Advanced configurations




As a platform administrator, you can implement advanced configurations to customize Ansible Automation Platform, including database connections, logging, caching, and gRPC server parameters.

## 4.1. `settings.py` file




As a platform administrator, you can modify the `settings.py` file to configure various aspects of Ansible Automation Platform, such as database connections, logging configurations, caching, and more.

There are two `settings.py` files; the default `settings.py` that is part of the codebase and must not be edited, and an override file that can be used to override the default values.

The location and management of the override `settings.py` file can differ based on your deployment (RPM-based, container-based installation, or operator-based installation).

### 4.1.1. RPM deployments




The override `settings.py` file in an RPM-based setup can be edited directly, and changes take effect after restarting the platform gateway service. If you choose to edit the file, be sure to use the proper syntax and values. The override `settings.py` file is located in the following directory:

```
/etc/ansible-automation-platform/gateway/settings.py
```

### 4.1.2. Container-based deployments




For container-based installation deployments, Ansible Automation Platform runs within containers and the `settings.py` file is included inside the container. However, directly editing the `settings.py` file in container-based installation deployments is not recommended because the `settings.py` file is overwritten during upgrades or new installs.

To customize settings in container-based installation deployments, you can use the `extra_settings` parameter to ensure that customizations persist through installer updates. For more information, see [Inventory file variables](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/appendix-inventory-files-vars) in the Containerized installation guide.

### 4.1.3. Operator-based deployments




For operator-based installation deployments, the `settings.py` file is typically located inside the container, however, users cannot modify the `settings.py` files directly in the container because containers in Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform are read-only.

Instead, for operator-based deployments, you can modify the settings for the platform gateway using the `spec.extra_settings` parameter on the Ansible Automation Platform custom resource.

## 4.2. `grpc_settings.py` file




Platform administrators can use the `grpc_settings.py` file to define special or custom parameters for the gRPC server.

There are two gRPC settings files: the default `grpc_default.py` that is part of the codebase and must not be edited, and an override file that can be used to override the default values. The `grpc_default.py` file includes database keepalive OPTIONS to help maintain a healthy gRPC connection and prevent interruptions. If it was necessary to change these defaults, the `grpc_settings.py` file can be used to override values from the `grpc_defauly.py` file.

The location and management of the override `grpc_settings.py` file can differ based on your deployment (RPM-based, container-based installation or operator-based installation).

### 4.2.1. RPM deployments




The override `grpc_settings.py` file in an RPM-based setup can be edited directly, and changes take effect after restarting the gateway systemd service. If you choose to edit the file, be sure to use the proper syntax and values. The override `grpc_settings.py` file is located in the following directory:

```
/etc/ansible-automation-platform/gateway/grpc_settings.py
```

### 4.2.2. Impacts of modifying the `grpc_settings.py` file




The gRPC server is responsible for helping with authentication between the different platform services. Altering the settings in the `grpc_settings.py` file can significantly impact the behavior and performance of the gRPC connection, especially in terms of connection stability.

It is important to thoroughly test any changes made to the gRPC settings before deploying them to production to ensure that the gRPC server functions as expected.

## 4.3. Loading order of settings




The platform gateway uses the Dynaconf library for managing its application settings. Dynaconf follows a layered configuration approach, where settings are loaded from multiple sources in a defined order, with later sources overriding earlier ones.

Ansible Automation Platform loads settings in the following sequence:

1.  **Application settings.py:** This file is in the application itself and defines the loading order and location of additional settings files.
1.  **Application default settings:** The platform loads default settings from a defaults.py file, which is part of the application itself. This file includes general configurations for both the API Server and the gRPC server.
1.  **Customer override file:** The `    /etc/ansible-automation-platform/gateway/settings.py` file is automatically installed and can be used to override any configuration in `    defaults.py` . Changes to this file affect both the API and gRPC servers.
1.  **Application gRPC default settings:** After the customer override file, the application loads additional default settings for the gRPC server only from the `    grpc_default.py` file. Specifically, this file includes database OPTIONS for the gRPC server, such as the keepalive parameters.
1.  **Customer gRPC override file:** The file `    /etc/ansible-automation-platform/gateway/grpc_settings.py` , if present, is loaded next and any settings contained in this file are applied only to the gRPC server.
1.  **Platform override settings file:** Any settings in the `    /etc/ansible-automation-platform/settings.py` file are applied to both the gRPC server and the API server. If there are multiple Ansible Automation Platform services on a single node, items in this file are applied to all services.
1.  **ENV vars:** Environment variables, where you can configure certain Ansible Automation Platform settings outside of the configuration files, are loaded last. They override any previously loaded settings.


# Chapter 5. Managing usability analytics and data collection from automation controller




You can change how you participate in usability analytics and data collection from automation controller by opting out or changing your settings in the automation controller user interface.

## 5.1. Usability analytics and data collection




Usability data collection is included with automation controller to collect data to better understand how automation controller users specifically interact with automation controller, to help enhance future releases, and to continue streamlining your user experience.

Only users installing a trial of automation controller or a fresh installation of automation controller are opted-in for this data collection.

 **Additional resources** 

-  [Red Hat privacy policy](https://www.redhat.com/en/about/privacy-policy) 


### 5.1.1. Controlling data collection from automation controller




You can control how automation controller collects data from theSettings→Automation Execution→Systemmenu.

 **Procedure** 

1. Log in to your automation controller.
1. From the navigation panel, selectSettings→Automation Execution→System.
1. Select **Gather data for Automation Analytics** to enable automation controller to gather data on automation and send it to Automation Analytics.


# Chapter 6. Renewing and changing the SSL/TLS certificates




If your current SSL/TLS certificates have expired or will expire soon, you can either renew or replace the SSL/TLS certificates used by Ansible Automation Platform.

You must renew the SSL/TLS certificates if you need to regenerate them with new information such as new hosts.

You must replace the SSL/TLS certificates if you want to use certificates signed by an internal certificate authority.

## 6.1. Container-based installations




You can change the TLS certificates and keys for your container-based Ansible Automation Platform installation. This process involves a preparation step, either providing new custom certificates or deleting or moving the old certificates, followed by running the installation program.

### 6.1.1. Changing TLS certificates and keys using the installation program




The following procedure describes how to update the TLS certificates and keys by using the installation program.

 **Procedure** 

1. To prepare the certificates and keys, choose one of the following methods:
    
    
    - To provide custom certificates - For each service that requires updated TLS certificates, copy the new certificates and keys to a path relative to the Ansible Automation Platform installer. Then update the inventory file variables with the absolute paths to the new files.
        
        
        ```
        # Platform gateway        gateway_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        gateway_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;        gateway_pg_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        gateway_pg_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;        gateway_redis_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        gateway_redis_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;                # Automation controller        controller_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        controller_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;        controller_pg_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        controller_pg_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;                # Automation hub        hub_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        hub_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;        hub_pg_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        hub_pg_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;                # Event-Driven Ansible        eda_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        eda_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;        eda_pg_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        eda_pg_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;        eda_redis_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        eda_redis_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;                # PostgreSQL        postgresql_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        postgresql_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;                # Receptor        receptor_tls_cert=&lt;path_to_tls_certificate&gt;        receptor_tls_key=&lt;path_to_tls_key&gt;
        ```
        
        
    - To generate new certificates - If you want the installation program to generate a new certificate for a service, delete or move the existing certificates and keys.
        
        
        <span id="idm140162030352448"></span>
         **Table 6.1. Certificate and key file paths per service** 
        
                | Service | Certificate file path | Key file path |
        | --- | --- | --- |
        | Automation controller |  `~/aap/controller/etc/tower.cert` |  `~/aap/controller/etc/tower.key` |
        | Event-Driven Ansible |  `~/aap/eda/etc/eda.cert` |  `~/aap/eda/etc/eda.key` |
        | Platform gateway |  `~/aap/gateway/etc/gateway.cert` |  `~/aap/gateway/etc/gateway.key` |
        | Automation hub |  `~/aap/hub/etc/pulp.cert` |  `~/aap/hub/etc/pulp.key` |
        | PostgreSQL |  `~/aap/postgresql/server.crt` |  `~/aap/postgresql/server.key` |
        | Receptor |  `~/aap/receptor/etc/receptor.crt` |  `~/aap/receptor/etc/receptor.key` |
        | Redis |  `~/aap/redis/server.crt` |  `~/aap/redis/server.key` |

        
        
        

    
1. After preparing your certificates, run the `    install` playbook from your installation directory:
    
    
    ```
    ansible-playbook -i &lt;inventory_file_name&gt; ansible.containerized_installer.install
    ```
    
    


 **Verification** 

Verify that the new TLS certificates are in use by checking that the services are running and accessible. To do this, check a specific endpoint by using `curl` :


```
$ curl -vk https://&lt;hostname_or_ip&gt;:&lt;port_number&gt;/api/v2/
```

The output of this command gives details about the TLS handshake. Look for the following output to confirm the correct certificate is being used:

```
*  SSL certificate verify OK
```

 **Additional resources** 

-  [Using custom TLS certificates](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/advanced-configuration-containerized#using-custom-tls-certificates) 
-  [Troubleshooting SSL/TLS issues](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/troubleshooting_ansible_automation_platform/troubleshoot-networking#troubleshooting-ssl-tls-issues) 
-  [Diagnosing the problem](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/containerized_installation/troubleshooting-containerized-ansible-automation-platform#diagnosing-the-problem_troubleshooting-containerized-aap) 


## 6.2. Operator-based installations




### 6.2.1. Changing the automation controller SSL/TLS certificate and key on OpenShift Container Platform




The following procedure describes how to change the SSL/TLS certificate and key for automation controller running on OpenShift Container Platform.

 **Procedure** 

1. Copy the signed SSL/TLS certificate and key to a secure location.
1. Create a TLS secret within OpenShift:
    
    
    ```
    oc create secret tls ${CONTROLLER_INSTANCE}-certs-$(date +%F) --cert=/path/to/ssl.crt --key=/path/to/ssl.key
    ```
    
    
1. Modify the automation controller custom resource to add `    route_tls_secret` and the name of the new secret to the spec section.
    
    
    ```
    oc edit automationcontroller/${CONTROLLER_INSTANCE}
    ```
    
    
    ```
    ...    spec:      route_tls_secret: automation-controller-certs-2023-04-06    ...
    ```
    
    


The name of the TLS secret is arbitrary. In this example, it is timestamped with the date that the secret is created, to differentiate it from other TLS secrets applied to the automation controller instance.


1. Wait a few minutes for the changes to be applied.
1. Verify that new SSL/TLS certificate and key have been installed:
    
    
    ```
    true | openssl s_client -showcerts -connect ${CONTROLLER_FQDN}:443
    ```
    
    


### 6.2.2. Changing the SSL/TLS certificate and key for automation hub on OpenShift Container Platform




The following procedure describes how to change the SSL/TLS certificate and key for automation hub running on OpenShift Container Platform.

 **Procedure** 

1. Copy the signed SSL/TLS certificate and key to a secure location.
1. Create a TLS secret within OpenShift:
    
    
    ```
    oc create secret tls ${AUTOMATION_HUB_INSTANCE}-certs-$(date +%F) --cert=/path/to/ssl.crt --key=/path/to/ssl.key
    ```
    
    
1. Modify the automation hub custom resource to add `    route_tls_secret` and the name of the new secret to the spec section.
    
    
    ```
    oc edit automationhub/${AUTOMATION_HUB_INSTANCE}
    ```
    
    
    ```
    ...    spec:      route_tls_secret: automation-hub-certs-2023-04-06    ...
    ```
    
    


The name of the TLS secret is arbitrary. In this example, it is timestamped with the date that the secret is created, to differentiate it from other TLS secrets applied to the automation hub instance.


1. Wait a few minutes for the changes to be applied.
1. Verify that new SSL/TLS certificate and key have been installed:
    
    
    ```
    true | openssl s_client -showcerts -connect ${CONTROLLER_FQDN}:443
    ```
    
    


## 6.3. RPM-based installations




To renew or change SSL/TLS certificates for RPM-based installations, you can edit the inventory file and run the installation program. The installation program verifies that all Ansible Automation Platform components are working.

Alternatively, you can change the SSL/TLS certificates manually. This is quicker, but there is no automatic verification.

Red Hat recommends that you use the installation program to make changes to your Ansible Automation Platform deployment.

### 6.3.1. Renewing the self-signed SSL/TLS certificates




The following steps regenerate new SSL/TLS certificates for all Ansible Automation Platform components.

 **Procedure** 

1. Add `    aap_service_regen_cert=true` to the inventory file in the `    [all:vars]` section:
    
    
    ```
    [all:vars]    aap_service_regen_cert=true
    ```
    
    
1. Run the installation program.


 **Verification** 

- Validate the CA file and certificate file on Event-Driven Ansible controller:
    
    
    ```
    openssl verify -CAfile ansible-automation-platform-managed-ca-cert.crt /etc/ansible-automation-platform/eda/server.cert    openssl s_client -connect &lt;EDA_FQDN&gt;:443
    ```
    
    
- Validate the CA file and certificate file on platform gateway:
    
    
    ```
    openssl verify -CAfile ansible-automation-platform-managed-ca-cert.crt /etc/ansible-automation-platform/gateway/gateway.cert    openssl s_client -connect &lt;GATEWAY_FQDN&gt;:443
    ```
    
    
- Validate the CA file and certificate file on automation hub:
    
    
    ```
    openssl verify -CAfile ansible-automation-platform-managed-ca-cert.crt /etc/pulp/certs/pulp_webserver.crt    openssl s_client -connect &lt;HUB_FQDN&gt;:443
    ```
    
    
- Validate the CA file and certificate file on automation controller:
    
    
    ```
    openssl verify -CAfile ansible-automation-platform-managed-ca-cert.crt /etc/tower/tower.cert    openssl s_client -connect &lt;CONTROLLER_FQDN&gt;:443
    ```
    
    


### 6.3.2. Changing SSL/TLS certificates and keys using the installation program




The following procedure describes how to change the SSL/TLS certificate and key in the inventory file.

 **Prerequisites** 

- The certificates must be in PEM format.
- If there is an intermediate certificate authority, you must append it to the server certificate.
- Use the correct order for the certificates: The server certificate comes first, followed by the intermediate certificate authority.


For further information, see the [ssl certificate section of the NGINX documentation](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_ssl_module.html#ssl_certificate) .

 **Procedure** 

1. Copy the new SSL/TLS certificates and keys to a path relative to the Ansible Automation Platform installer.
1. Add the absolute paths of the SSL/TLS certificates and keys to the inventory file. Refer to [Inventory file variables](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/rpm_installation/appendix-inventory-files-vars) for guidance on setting these variables.
    
    
    - Event-Driven Ansible controller: `        automationedacontroller_ssl_cert` , `        automationedacontroller_ssl_key` , `        custom_ca_cert` 
    - Platform gateway: `        automationgateway_ssl_cert` , `        automationgateway_ssl_key` , `        custom_ca_cert` 
    - Automation hub: `        automationhub_ssl_cert` , `        automationhub_ssl_key` , `        custom_ca_cert` 
    - Automation controller: `        web_server_ssl_cert` , `        web_server_ssl_key` , `        custom_ca_cert` 
        
        Note
        The `        custom_ca_cert` must be the root certificate authority that signed the intermediate certificate authority. This file is installed in `        /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors` .
        
        
        
        
    
1. Run the installation program.


### 6.3.3. Changing SSL/TLS certificates and keys manually




The following procedure describes how to change SSL/TLS certificates and keys manually for all Ansible Automation Platform components.

 **Procedure** 

1. Backup the current SSL/TLS certificate:
    
    
    ```
    cp &lt;CERT_PATH&gt; &lt;CERT_PATH&gt;-$(date +%F)
    ```
    
    
1. Backup the current key files:
    
    
    ```
    cp &lt;KEY_PATH&gt; &lt;KEY_PATH&gt;-$(date +%F)
    ```
    
    
1. Copy the new SSL/TLS certificate to the certificate path.
1. Copy the new key to the key path.
1. Restore the SELinux context:
    
    
    ```
    restorecon -v &lt;CERT_PATH&gt; &lt;KEY_PATH&gt;
    ```
    
    
1. Set appropriate permissions for the certificate and key files:
    
    
    ```
    chown &lt;OWNER&gt;:&lt;GROUP&gt; &lt;CERT_PATH&gt; &lt;KEY_PATH&gt;    chmod 0600 &lt;CERT_PATH&gt; &lt;KEY_PATH&gt;
    ```
    
    
1. Test the NGINX configuration:
    
    
    ```
    nginx -t
    ```
    
    
1. Reload NGINX:
    
    
    ```
    systemctl reload nginx.service
    ```
    
    
1. Verify that new SSL/TLS certificate and key have been installed:
    
    
    ```
    true | openssl s_client -showcerts -connect &lt;COMPONENT_FQDN&gt;:443
    ```
    
    
    <span id="idm140162029626896"></span>
     **Table 6.2. SSL/TLS certificate and key file paths per service** 
    
        | Service | Certificate file path | Key file path | Owner:Group |
    | --- | --- | --- | --- |
    | Automation controller |  `/etc/tower/tower.cert` |  `/etc/tower/tower.key` |  `root:awx` |
    | Automation hub |  `/etc/pulp/certs/pulp_webserver.crt` |  `/etc/pulp/certs/pulp_webserver.key` |  `root:pulp` |
    | Event-Driven Ansible controller |  `/etc/ansible-automation-platform/eda/server.cert` |  `/etc/ansible-automation-platform/eda/server.key` |  `root:eda` |
    | Platform gateway |  `/etc/ansible-automation-platform/gateway/gateway.cert` |  `/etc/ansible-automation-platform/gateway/gateway.key` |  `root:gateway` |

    
    
    




<span id="idm140162035190288"></span>
# Legal Notice

Copyright© Red Hat.
Except as otherwise noted below, the text of and illustrations in this documentation are licensed by Red Hat under the Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 3.0 Unported license . If you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version.
Red Hat, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Red Hat, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, Hibernate, and RHCE are trademarks or registered trademarks of Red Hat, LLC. or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.
Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries.
XFS is a trademark or registered trademark of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Development LP or its subsidiaries in the United States and other countries.
TheOpenStack® Word Mark and OpenStack logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of the Linux Foundation, used under license.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.





