# Pull execution environments for use in automation hub
## Pull and sync images from automation hub to your local system
### Automation execution environments precedence

Identify and control the exact automation execution environment applied to your jobs by tracing the precedence hierarchy, ensuring you can troubleshoot environment mismatches or configure accurate defaults across your templates, projects, and organizations.

Project updates always use the control plane automation execution environments by default.

However, jobs use the first available automation execution environments as follows:

1. The `execution_environment` defined on the template (job template or inventory source) that created the job.
2. The `execution_environment` defined on the project that the job uses.
3. The `execution_environment` defined on the organization of the job.
4. The `execution_environment` defined on the organization of the inventory the job uses.
5. The current Global default execution environment setting configurable at `api/v2/settings/system/`
6. Any image from the `GLOBAL_JOB_EXECUTION_ENVIRONMENTS` setting.
7. Any other global execution environment. Note:
Where an `execution_environment` is not available, the `Default execution environment` can be used. However, you must select this, as the system does not automatically provide a default environment.

If more than one execution environment fits a criteria (applies for 6 and 7), the most recently created one is used.

When the "Default Execution Environment" is not used for a job, double-check the following:

1. Whether a different execution environment has been defined for the template, project, or organization of the job.

2. If the **Global default execution environment** in Settings> (and then)Automation execution> (and then)System specifies a different execution environment. Note:
This setting is not configured by default.

3. Check the order of the `GLOBAL_JOB_EXECUTION_ENVIRONMENTS` in `/etc/tower/conf.d/execution_environments.py`. `Default Execution Environment` should be the first item in the array.

4. Check the order of the execution environments defined in the database by running the following command as root on the Ansible Controller node to output the `main_executionenvironment` table:

```
# echo "select id, name, created from main_executionenvironment where organization_id is null and managed = False order by created desc;" | awx-manage dbshell
```
To ensure that the Default Execution Environment is used regardless of the `GLOBAL_JOB_EXECUTION_ENVIRONMENTS` setting and database order, set the Global default execution environment in Settings> (and then)Automation execution> (and then)System to Default Execution Environment.
