+++
path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/using_automation_analytics/index"
title = "Using automation analytics - Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.6"

[extra]
modified = "2025-10-01T10:05:23.000Z"
multi_page_path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/using_automation_analytics/index/"
name = "Using automation analytics"
page_slug = "using_automation_analytics"
product = "Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform"
product_version = "2.6"
reference_url = "https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html-single/using_automation_analytics/index"
type = "single-page"
+++


<span id="idm139947830082704"></span>
Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform2.6
## Evaluate the cost savings associated with automated processes


Red Hat Customer Content Services

 [Legal Notice](#idm139947829839296) 
 **Abstract** 

This guide shows how to use the features of automation analytics to evaluate how automation is deployed across your environments and the savings associated with it.




---

# Preface




This guide shows how to use the features of automation analytics to evaluate how automation is deployed across your environments and the savings associated with it.

# Providing feedback on Red Hat documentation




If you have a suggestion to improve this documentation, or find an error, you can contact technical support at [https://access.redhat.com](https://access.redhat.com) to open a request.

# Chapter 1. About Automation Calculator




The automation calculator provides graphs, metrics and calculations that help you determine the total savings on your investment in automated processes.

 **Automation savings** 

Automation savings is produced by an analysis of the time and cost of performing a task manually, such as deploying a server, versus the time and cost associated with automating the same task. Automation savings calculations extend across all organizations, clusters, hosts and templates in an environment. Include your own estimated costs to produce a more accurate calculation.

Note
The initial total savings is based on default values for each variable.



 **Variables** 

Several variables are used in evaluating costs:

-  **Manual cost of automation** - the approximate cost for a mid-level resource to perform a task or series of tasks.
-  **Cost of automation** - costs associated with automating tasks as job templates.
-  **Automation time** - the time required to run a job template.
-  **Number of hosts** - the number of hosts in inventory the template runs on.


 **Automation formula** 

Automation savings is based on the following formulas:

-  **Manual cost per template** = (time for a manual run on one host * (sum of all hosts across job runs)) * cost per hour.
-  **Automation cost per template** = cost of automation per hour * sum of total elapsed hours for a template.
-  **Savings** = sum of (manual cost - automation costs) across all templates.


## 1.1. Calculating your automation savings




The **Automation Calculator** produces its default total savings figure based on estimates for each variable.

You can tune this calculation by providing more specific organizational cost information and adjusting the time values for each of the top templates. The total savings updates dynamically as you edit each field.

Note
Automation savings calculations are not saved in Red Hat Automation Analytics.



To calculate your automation savings:

1. Under **Calculate your automation** enter cost information for:
    
    
    1.  **Manual process cost** 
    1.  **Automated process cost** 
    
1. Under **Top templates** :
    
    
    1. Adjust time values for top templates to provide time to manually perform each task that the template automates.
    


 **Total savings** updates based on the information you enter in each field.

## 1.2. Top templates




 **Top templates** lists the 25 most frequently run templates across all hosts in your environment. Templates are listed in descending order starting with the highest run count. You can enter the time it takes to perform tasks manually that are automated by templates in the field adjacent to the run totals to produce a more accurate total savings. The default value is set to **60** minutes.

### 1.2.1. Curating top templates




You can use the toggle switch for each template to show or hide it in the bar graph to compare performance and savings based on specific templates.

- Click the toggle switch for each template to display or hide it.


The bar graph on the **Automation Calculator** will update to display those top templates selected and **Total savings** will calculate based on those templates.

### 1.2.2. Viewing template details




You can view detailed information for each template in **Top templates** to learn more about the template’s context in the calculation of automation savings.

- Click the **Info** icon for a job template to view template details.


 **Top template information is provided for the following:** 

-  **Total elapsed sum** - Total run time of the template.
-  **Success elapsed sum** - Total run time for successful template runs.
-  **Failed elapsed sum** - Total run time for failed template runs.
-  **Automation percentage** - The template accounts for this percentage of automation in your organization.
-  **Associated organizations** - The template runs against these organizations.
-  **Associated clusters** - Automation controller clusters the template runs on.


# Chapter 2. About the automation savings planner




An automation savings plan gives you the ability to plan, track, and analyze the potential efficiency and cost savings of your automation initiatives. Use automation analytics to create an automation savings plan by defining a list of tasks needed to complete an automation job. You can then link your automation savings plans to an Ansible job template in order to accurately measure the time and cost savings upon completion of an automation job.

To create an automation savings plan, you can utilize the automation savings planner to prioritize the various automation jobs throughout your organization and understand the potential time and cost savings for your automation initiatives.

## 2.1. Creating a new automation savings plan




Create an automation savings plan by defining the tasks needed to complete an automation job using the automation savings planner.

- The details you provide when creating a savings plan, namely the number of hosts and the manual duration, will be used to calculate your savings from automating this plan. See [this section](#con-review-savings-calculations_assembly-automation-savings-planner-ctxt) for more information.


 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectAutomation Analytics→Savings Planner.
1. ClickAdd Plan.
1. Provide some information about your automation job:
    
    
    1. Enter descriptive information, such as a name, description, and type of automation.
    1. Enter technical information, such as the number of hosts, the duration to manually complete this job, and how often you complete this job.
    1. ClickNext.
    
1. In the tasks section, list the tasks needed to complete this plan:
    
    
    1. Enter each task in the field, then clickAdd.
    1. Rearrange tasks by dragging the item up/down the tasks list.
    1. ClickNext.
    


Note
The task list is for your planning purposes only, and does not currently factor into your automation savings calculation.



1. Select a template to link to this plan, then clickSave.


Your new savings plan is now created and displayed on the automation savings planner list view.

## 2.2. Edit an existing savings plan




Edit any information about an existing savings plan by clicking on it from the savings planner list view.

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectAutomation Analytics→Savings Planner.
1. On the automation savings plan, click Click theMore Actionsicon **⋮** , then clickEdit.
1. Make any changes to the automation plan, then clickSave.


## 2.3. Link a savings plan to a job template




You can associate a job template to a savings plan to allow automation analytics to provide a more accurate time and cost savings estimate for completing this savings plan.

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectAutomation Analytics→Savings Planner.
1. Click theMore Actionsicon **⋮** and select **Link Template** .
1. ClickSave.


## 2.4. Review savings calculations for your automation plans




The automation savings planner offers a calculation of how much time and money you can save by automating a job. automation analytics takes data from the plan details and the associated job template to provide you with an accurate projection of your cost savings when you complete this savings plan.

To do so, navigate to your savings planner page, click the name of an existing plan, then navigate to the **Statistics** tab.

The statistics chart displays a projection of your monetary and time savings based on the information you provided when creating a savings plan. Primarily, the statistics chart subtracts the automated cost from the manual cost of executing the plan to provide the total resources saved upon automation. The chart then displays this data by year to show you the cumulative benefits for automating the plan over time.

Click between **Money** and **Time** to view the different types of savings for automating the plan.

## 2.5. Filter and sort plans on the list view page




Find specific types of automation savings plans by filtering or sorting your savings planner list view.

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectAutomation Analytics→Savings Planner.
1. To filter your saving plans based on type, or sort your savings plans by a certain order, select a filter option on the horizontal toolbar.


# Chapter 3. Viewing your reports on Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform




The reports feature on the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform provides users with a visual overview of their automation efforts across different teams using Ansible. Each report is designed to help users monitor the status of their automation environment, be it the frequency of playbook runs or the status of hosts affected by various job templates.

For example, you can use your reports to:

- View the number of hosts affected by a job template
- View the number changes made to hosts by a job template
- View the frequency of a job template run, and the rate of job templates that succeed or fail to run


## 3.1. Reviewing your reports




To view reports about your Ansible automation environment, proceed with the following steps:

 **Procedure** 

1. Log in to [console.redhat.com](https://console.redhat.com) and navigate to the Ansible Automation Platform.
1. ClickReportson the side navigation panel.
1. Select a report from the results to view it.


Each report presents data to monitor your Ansible automation environment. Use the filter toolbar on each report to adjust your graph view.

Note
We are constantly adding new reports to the system. If you have ideas for new reports that would be helpful for your team, please contact your account representative or log a feature enhancement for automation analytics.



# Chapter 4. About the Job Explorer




The **Job Explorer** provides a detailed view of jobs run on automation controller clusters across your organizations. You can access the **Job Explorer** by selectingAutomation Analytics→Job Explorerfrom the navigation panel or using the drill-down view available across each of the application’s charts.

Using the **Job Explorer** you can:

- Filter the types of jobs running in a cluster or organization;
- Directly link out to templates on automation controller for further assessment;
- Identify and review job failures;
- View more details for top templates running on a cluster;
- Filter out nested workflows and jobs.


You can review the features and details of the **Job Explorer** in the following sections.

## 4.1. Creating a filtered and sorted view of jobs




You can view a list of jobs, filtered by attributes you choose, using the **Job Explorer** .

Filter options include:

- Status
- Job
- Cluster
- Organization
- Inventory
- Template


You can sort results by any of the parameters from each column using the directional arrows.

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectAutomation Analytics→Job Explorer.
1. In the filter toolbar, select **Job** from the **Filter by** list.
1. In that same toolbar, select a time range. Job Explorer will now display jobs within that time range.
1. To further refine results, return to the filter toolbar and select a different attribute to filter results by, including job status, cluster, or organization.


The **Job Explorer** view updates and presents a list of jobs based on the attributes you selected.

### 4.1.1. Viewing more information about an individual job




You can click on the arrow icon next to the job **Id/Name** column to view more details related to that job.

### 4.1.2. Reviewing job details on automation controller




Click the job in the **Id/Name** column to view the job itself on the automation controller job details page. For more information on job settings for automation controller, see Jobs in automation controller in the [Using automation execution](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/using_automation_execution/controller-jobs) .

## 4.2. Drilling down into cluster data




You can drill down into cluster data to review more detailed information about successful or failed jobs. The detailed view, presented on the **Job Explorer** page, provides information on the cluster, organization, template, and job type. Filters you select on the **Clusters** view carry over to the **Job Explorer** page.

Details on those job templates will appear in the **Job Explorer** view, modified by any filters you select in the **Clusters** view.

For example, you can drill down to review details for failed jobs in a cluster. See below to learn more.

### 4.2.1. Example: Reviewing failed jobs




You can view more detail about failed jobs across your organization by drilling down on the graph on the **Cluster** view and using the **Job Explorer** to refine results. Clicking on a specific portion in a graph will open that information in the **Job Explorer** , preserving contextual information created when using filters on the **Clusters** view.

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectAutomation Analytics→Clusters.
1. Using the filter lists in the toolbar, you can apply filters for clusters and time range of your choosing.
1. Click on a segment on the graph.


You are redirected to the **Job Explorer** view, and presented with a list of successful and failed jobs corresponding to that day on the bar graph.

To view only failed jobs:

1. Select **Status** from the **Filter by** list.
1. Select the **Failed** filter.


The view is updated to show only failed jobs run on that day.

Add additional context to the view by applying additional filters and selecting attributes to sort results. Link out and review more information for failed jobs on the automation controller job details page.

## 4.3. Viewing top templates job details for a specific cluster




You can view job instances for top templates in a cluster to learn more about individual job runs associated with that template or to apply filters to further drill down into the data.

 **Procedure** 

1. From the navigation panel, selectAutomation Analytics→Clusters.
1. Click on a template name in **Top Templates** .
1. ClickView all jobsin the modal that appears.


The **Job Explorer** page displays all jobs on the chosen cluster associated with that template. The view presented will preserve the contextual information of the template based on the parameters selected in the **Clusters** view.

## 4.4. Ignoring nested workflows and jobs




Select the settings icon on the **Job Explorer** view and use the toggle switch to **Ignore nested workflows and jobs** . This option filters out duplicate workflow and job template entries and excludes those items from overall totals.

Note
 **About nested workflows** 

Nested workflows allow you to create workflow job templates that call other workflow job templates. Nested workflows promotes reuse, as modular components, of workflows that include existing business logic and organizational requirements in automating complex processes and operations.

To learn more about nested workflows, see Workflows in automation controller in the [Using automation execution](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/using_automation_execution/controller-workflows) .



# Chapter 5. Automation Analytics Data Dictionary




Automation Analytics Data is sent to the Red Hat Hybrid Cloud Console (HCC) to provide detailed analytics on your automation.

The [Ansible Automation Platform - Data Dictionary](https://access.redhat.com/articles/7124201) knowledge base article outlines the data dictionary for the information collected by Automation Analytics from the Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform automation controller, also known as Automation Execution.


<span id="idm139947829839296"></span>
# Legal Notice

Copyright© 2025 Red Hat, Inc.
The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by Red Hat under a Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/) . In accordance with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version.
Red Hat, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Red Hat, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Shadowman logo, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, OpenShift, Fedora, the Infinity logo, and RHCE are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc., registered in the United States and other countries.
Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries.
Java® is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
XFS® is a trademark of Silicon Graphics International Corp. or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries.
MySQL® is a registered trademark of MySQL AB in the United States, the European Union and other countries.
Node.js® is an official trademark of Joyent. Red Hat is not formally related to or endorsed by the official Joyent Node.js open source or commercial project.
TheOpenStack® Word Mark and OpenStack logo are either registered trademarks/service marks or trademarks/service marks of the OpenStack Foundation, in the United States and other countries and are used with the OpenStack Foundation's permission. We are not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the OpenStack Foundation, or the OpenStack community.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.





