+++
title = "Ansible Automation Platform migration - Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform 2.5"
path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html-single/ansible_automation_platform_migration/index"

[extra]
modified = "2025-08-01T19:58:29.000Z"
multi_page_path = "/documentation/en-us/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/ansible_automation_platform_migration/index/"
name = "Ansible Automation Platform migration"
page_slug = "ansible_automation_platform_migration"
product = "Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform"
product_version = "2.5"
reference_url = "https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html-single/ansible_automation_platform_migration/index"
type = "single-page"
+++


<span id="idm139928873337472"></span>
Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform2.5
## Migrate your deployment of Ansible Automation Platform from one installation type to another


Red Hat Customer Content Services

 [Legal Notice](#idm139928868156544) 
 **Abstract** 

This guide provides instructions for migrating your Red Hat Ansible Automation Platform deployment from one installation type to another




---

# Providing feedback on Red Hat documentation




If you have a suggestion to improve this documentation, or find an error, you can contact technical support at [https://access.redhat.com](https://access.redhat.com) to open a request.

Important
Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see [Technology Preview Features Support Scope](https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview/) .



# Chapter 1. Introduction and objectives




This document outlines the necessary steps and considerations for migrating between different Ansible Automation Platform deployment types for Ansible Automation Platform 2.5. Specifically, it focuses on these migration paths:

| Source environment | Target environment |
| --- | --- |
| RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform | Container-based Ansible Automation Platform platform |
| RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform | OpenShift Container Platform |
| RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform | Managed Ansible Automation Platform |
| Container-based Ansible Automation Platform | OpenShift Container Platform |
| Container-based Ansible Automation Platform | Managed Ansible Automation Platform |


Migrations outside of those listed are not supported at this time.

The primary goals of this document are to:

- Document all components and configurations that must be migrated between Ansible Automation Platform platforms
- Give step-by-step migration workflows for different deployment scenarios
- Identify potential challenges and unknowns that require further investigation


# Chapter 2. Out of scope




This guide is focused on the core components of Ansible Automation Platform. The following items are currently out of scope for the migration processes described in this document:

- Event-Driven Ansible: Configuration and content for Event-Driven Ansible must be manually recreated in the target environment.
- Instance groups: Instance group configurations must be manually recreated after migration.
- Hub content: Content hosted in automation hub must be manually reimported or reconfigured.
- Custom Certificate Authority (CA) for receptor mesh: Custom CA configurations for receptor mesh must be manually reconfigured.
- Disconnected environments: The migration processes for disconnected environments is not covered in this guide.
- Execution environments (other than the default one): Custom execution environments must be rebuilt or reimported manually.


As of the date of writing this guide, the content and configuration for these items are expected to be re-created, imported, or configured manually in the target environment. These out-of-scope items might be added as supported components in future updates to this migration guide.

# Chapter 3. Migration process overview




Important
You can only migrate to a different installation type of the same Ansible Automation Platform version. For example you can migrate from RPM version 2.5 to containerized 2.5, but not from RPM version 2.4 to containerized 2.5.



The migration between Ansible Automation Platform installation types follows this general workflow:

1. Prepare and assess the source environment - Prepare and assess the existing source environment for migration.
1. Export the source environment - Extract the necessary data and configurations from the source environment.
1. Create and verify the migration artifact - Package all collected data and configurations into a migration artifact.
1. Prepare and assess the target environment - Prepare and assess the new target environment for migration.
1. Import the migration content to the target environment - Transfer the migration artifact into the prepared target environment.
1. Reconcile the target environment post-import - Address any inconsistencies and reconfigure services in the target environment after import.
1. Validate the target environment - Confirm the migrated environment is fully operational.


# Chapter 4. Migration prerequisites




Prerequisites for migrating your Ansible Automation Platform deployment. For your specific migration path, ensure that you meet all necessary conditions before proceeding.

## 4.1. Prerequisites for migrating from an RPM deployment to a containerized deployment




Before migrating from an RPM-based deployment to a container-based deployment, ensure you meet the following prerequisites:

- You have a source RPM-based deployment of Ansible Automation Platform.
- The source RPM-based deployment is on the latest async release of the version you are on.
- You have a target environment prepared for a container-based deployment of Ansible Automation Platform.
- The target deployment is on the latest release of the Ansible Automation Platform version you are on.
- You have downloaded the containerized installer.
- You have enough storage for database dumps and backups.
- There is network connectivity between source and target environments.


## 4.2. Prerequisites for migrating from an RPM-based deployment to an OpenShift Container Platform deployment




Before migrating from an RPM-based deployment to an OpenShift Container Platform deployment, ensure you meet the following prerequisites:

- You have a source RPM-based deployment of Ansible Automation Platform.
- The source RPM-based deployment is on the latest async release of the version you are on.
- You have a target OpenShift Container Platform environment ready.
- The target deployment is on the latest release of the Ansible Automation Platform version you are on.
- You have Ansible Automation Platform Operator available.
- You have made a decision on internal or external database configuration.
- You have made a decision on internal or external Redis configuration.
- There is network connectivity between source and target environments.


## 4.3. Prerequisites for migrating from an RPM-based deployment to a Managed Ansible Automation Platform deployment




Before migrating from an RPM-based deployment to a Managed Ansible Automation Platform deployment, ensure you meet the following prerequisites:

- You have a source RPM-based deployment of Ansible Automation Platform.
- The source deployment is on the latest release of the Ansible Automation Platform version you are on.
- You have a target Managed Ansible Automation Platform deployment.
- You have enabled local authentication on the source deployment before the migration.
- A local administrator account must be functional on the source deployment before migration. Verify this by performing a successful login to the source deployment.
- You have a plan to retain a backup throughout the migration process and to ensure that your existing Ansible Automation Platform deployment remains active until your migration has completed successfully.
- You have a plan for any environment changes based on the migration from a self-hosted Ansible Automation Platform deployment to a Managed Ansible Automation Platform deployment:
    
    
    - Job log retention changes from a customer-configured option to 30 days.
    - Network changes occur when moving the control plane to the managed service.
    - Automation mesh requires reconfiguration.
    
- You must reconfigure or re-create SSO identity providers post-migration to account for URL changes.


## 4.4. Prerequisites for migrating from a container-based deployment to an OpenShift Container Platform deployment




Before migrating from a container-based deployment to an OpenShift Container Platform deployment, ensure that you meet the following prerequisites:

- You have a source container-based deployment of Ansible Automation Platform.
- The source deployment is on the latest async release of the version you are on.
- You have a target OpenShift Container Platform environment ready.
- The target deployment is on the latest release of the Ansible Automation Platform version you are on.
- You have an Ansible Automation Platform Operator available.
- You have decided between internal or external database configuration.
- You have decided between internal or external Redis configuration.
- There is network connectivity between source and target environments.


## 4.5. Prerequisites for migrating from a container-based deployment to a Managed Ansible Automation Platform deployment




Before migrating from a container-based deployment to a Managed Ansible Automation Platform deployment, ensure that you meet the following prerequisites:

- You have a source container-based deployment of Ansible Automation Platform.
- The source deployment is on the latest release of the Ansible Automation Platform version you are on.
- You have a target Managed Ansible Automation Platform deployment.
- You have enabled local authentication on the source deployment before the migration.
- A local administrator account must be functional on the source deployment before migration. Verify this by performing a successful login to the source deployment.
- You have a plan to retain a backup throughout the migration process and to ensure that your existing Ansible Automation Platform deployment remains active until your migration has completed successfully.
- You have a plan for any environment changes based on the migration from a self-hosted Ansible Automation Platform deployment to a Managed Ansible Automation Platform deployment:
    
    
    - Job log retention changes from a customer-configured option to 30 days.
    - Network changes occur when moving the control plane to the managed service.
    - Automation mesh requires reconfiguration.
    
- You must reconfigure or re-create SSO identity providers post-migration to account for URL changes.


# Chapter 5. Migration artifact structure and verification




The migration artifact is a critical component for successfully transferring your Ansible Automation Platform deployment. It packages all necessary data and configurations from your source environment.

This section details the structure of the migration artifact and includes a migration checklist for artifact verification.

## 5.1. Artifact structure




The migration artifact serves as a comprehensive package containing all necessary components to successfully transfer your Ansible Automation Platform deployment.

Structure the artifact as follows:

```
/
manifest.yml
secrets.yml
sha256sum.txt
-&gt; controller:
    controller.pgc
-&gt; custom_configs:
    foo.py
    bar.py
-&gt; gateway:
    gateway.pgc
-&gt; hub:
    hub.pgc
```

## 5.2. Manifest file




The `manifest.yml` file serves as the primary metadata document for the migration artifact, containing critical versioning and component information from your source environment.

Structure the manifest as follows:

```
aap_version: X.Y # The version being migrated
platform: rpm # The source platform type
components:
  - name: controller
    version: x.y.z
  - name: hub
    version: x.y.z
  - name: gateway
    version: x.y.z
```

## 5.3. Secrets file




The `secrets.yml` file in the migration artifact includes essential Django `SECRET_KEY` values and other sensitive data required for authentication between services.

Structure the secrets file as follows:

```
controller_pg_database: &lt;redacted&gt;
controller_secret_key: &lt;redacted&gt;
gateway_pg_database: &lt;redacted&gt;
gateway_secret_key: &lt;redacted&gt;
hub_pg_database: &lt;redacted&gt;
hub_secret_key: &lt;redacted&gt;
hub_db_fields_encryption_key: &lt;redacted&gt;
```

Note
Ensure the `secrets.yml` file is encrypted kept in a secure location.



## 5.4. Migration artifact creation checklist




Use this checklist to verify the migration artifact.

- Database dumps: Include complete database dumps for each component.
    
    
    - Ensure the automation controller database ( `        controller.pgc` ) is present in the artifact.
    - Ensure the automation hub database ( `        hub.pgc` ) is present in the artifact.
    - Ensure the platform gateway database ( `        gateway.pgc` ) is present in the artifact.
    
- Secret dumps: Export and include all security-related information.
    
    
    - Validate that all secret values are present in the `        secrets.yml` file.
    
- Custom configurations: Package all customizations from the source environment.
    
    
    - Validate that any custom Python scripts or modules (for example `        foo.py` , `        bar.py` ) are present on the artifact.
    - Document any non-standard configurations or environment-specific settings.
    
- Database information: Document database details.
    
    
    - Include the database names for all components.
    - Document database users and required permissions.
    - Note any database-specific configurations or optimizations.
    
- Verification: Ensure artifact integrity and completeness.
    
    
    - Verify that all required files are included in the artifact.
    - Verify that checksums exist for all included database files.
    - Test the artifact’s structure and accessibility.
    - Consider encrypting the artifact for secure transfer to the target environment.
    
- Document any known limitations or special considerations.


# Chapter 6. Source environment




Prepare and export data from your existing Ansible Automation Platform deployment. The exported data forms a critical migration artifact, which you use to configure your new environment.

## 6.1. RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform




Prepare and export data from your RPM-based Ansible Automation Platform deployment.

### 6.1.1. Preparing and assessing the source environment




Before beginning your migration, document your current RPM deployment. This documentation serves as a reference throughout the migration process and is critical for properly configuring your target environment.

 **Procedure** 

1. Document the full topology of your current RPM deployment:
    
    
    1. Map out all servers, nodes, and their roles (for example control nodes, execution nodes, database servers).
    1. Note the hostname, IP address, and function of each server in your deployment.
    1. Document the network configuration between components.
    
1. Ansible Automation Platform version information:
    
    
    1. Record the exact Ansible Automation Platform version (X.Y) currently deployed.
    
1. Document the specific version of each component:
    
    
    1. Automation controller version
    1. Automation hub version
    1. Platform gateway version
    
1. Database configuration:
    
    
    1. Database names for each component
    1. Database users and roles
    1. Connection parameters and authentication methods
    1. Any custom PostgreSQL configurations or optimizations
    


### 6.1.2. Exporting the source environment




From your source environment, export the data and configurations needed for migration.

 **Procedure** 

1. Verify the PostgreSQL database version is PostgreSQL version 15.
    
    You can verify your current PostgreSQL version by connecting to your database server and running the following command as the `    postgres` user:
    
    
    ```
    $ psql -c 'SELECT version();'
    ```
    
    Important
    PostgreSQL version 15 is a strict requirement for the migration process to succeed. If running PostgreSQL 13 or earlier, upgrade to version 15 before proceeding with the migration.
    
    If using an Ansible Automation Platform managed database, re-run the installation program to upgrade the PostgreSQL version. If using a customer provided (external) database, contact your database administrator or service provider to confirm the version and arrange for an upgrade if required.
    
    
    
    
1. Create a complete backup of the source environment:
    
    
    ```
    $ ./setup.sh -e 'backup_dest=/path/to/backup_dir/' -b
    ```
    
    
1. Get the connection settings from one node from each of the component groups.
    
    For each command, access the host and become the `    root` user.
    
    
    - Access the automation controller node and run:
        
        
        ```
        # awx-manage print_settings | grep '^DATABASES'
        ```
        
        
    - Access the automation hub node and run:
        
        
        ```
        # grep '^DATABASES' /etc/pulp/settings.py
        ```
        
        
    - Access the platform gateway node and run:
        
        
        ```
        # aap-gateway-manage print_settings | grep '^DATABASES'
        ```
        
        
    
1. Stage the manually created artifact on the platform gateway node.
    
    
    ```
    # mkdir -p /tmp/backups/artifact/{controller,gateway,hub}
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # mkdir -p /tmp/backups/artifact/controller/custom_configs
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # touch /tmp/backups/artifact/secrets.yml
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # cd /tmp/backups/artifact/
    ```
    
    
1. Validate the database size and make sure you have enough space on the filesystem for the `    pg_dump` .
    
    You can verify the database sizes by connecting to your database server and running the following command as the `    postgres` user:
    
    
    ```
    $ psql -c '\l+'
    ```
    
    Adjust the filesystem size or mount an external filesystem as needed before performing the next step.
    
    Note
    This procedure assumes that all target files will be sent to the `    /tmp` filesystem. You must adjust the commands to match your environment’s needs.
    
    
    
    
1. Perform database dumps of all components on the platform gateway node within the artifact you created.
    
    
    ```
    # psql -h &lt;pg_hostname&gt; -U &lt;component_pg_user&gt; -d &lt;database_name&gt; -t -c 'SHOW server_version;' # ensure connectivity to the database
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # pg_dump -h &lt;pg_hostname&gt; -U &lt;component_pg_user&gt; -d &lt;component_pg_name&gt; --clean --create -Fc -f &lt;component&gt;/&lt;component&gt;.pgc
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # ls -ld &lt;component&gt;/&lt;component&gt;.pgc
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # echo "&lt;component&gt;_pg_database: &lt;database_name&gt;" &gt;&gt; secrets.yml ## Add the database name for the component to the secrets file
    ```
    
    
1. Export secrets from the RPM environment from one node of each component group.
    
    For each of the following steps, use the `    root` user to run the commands.
    
    
    - Access the automation controller node, gather the secret key, and add it to the `        controller_secret_key` value in the `        secrets.yml` file.
        
        
        ```
        # cat /etc/tower/SECRET_KEY
        ```
        
        
    - Access the automation hub node, gather the secret key, and add it to the `        hub_secret_key` value in the `        secrets.yml` file.
        
        
        ```
        # grep 'SECRET_KEY' /etc/pulp/settings.py | awk -F'=' '{ print $2}'
        ```
        
        
    - Access the automation hub node, gather the `        database_fields.symmetric.key` value, and add it to the `        hub_db_fields_encryption_key` value in the `        secrets.yml` file.
        
        
        ```
        # cat /etc/pulp/certs/database_fields.symmetric.key
        ```
        
        
    - Access the platform gateway node, gather the secret key, and add it to the `        gateway_secret_key` value in the `        secrets.yml` file.
        
        
        ```
        # cat /etc/ansible-automation-platform/gateway/SECRET_KEY
        ```
        
        
    
1. Export automation controller custom configurations.
    
    If any custom settings exist on the `    /etc/tower/conf.d` , copy them to `    /tmp/backups/artifact/controller/custom_configs` .
    
    Configuration files on automation controller that are managed by the installation program and not considered custom:
    
    
    -  `        /etc/tower/conf.d/postgres.py` 
    -  `        /etc/tower/conf.d/channels.py` 
    -  `        /etc/tower/conf.d/caching.py` 
    -  `        /etc/tower/conf.d/cluster_host_id.py` 
    
1. Package the artifact.
    
    
    ```
    # cd /tmp/backups/artifact/
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # [ -f sha256sum.txt ] &amp;&amp; rm -f sha256sum.txt; find . -type f -name "*.pgc" -exec sha256sum {} \; &gt;&gt; sha256sum.txt
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # cat sha256sum.txt
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # cd
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # tar cf artifact.tar artifact
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # sha256sum artifact.tar &gt; artifact.tar.sha256
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # sha256sum --check artifact.tar.sha256
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # tar tvf artifact.tar
    ```
    
    Example output of `    tar tvf artifact.tar` :
    
    
    ```
    drwxr-xr-x ansible/ansible        0 2025-05-08 16:48 artifact/    drwxr-xr-x ansible/ansible        0 2025-05-08 16:33 artifact/controller/    -rw-r--r-- ansible/ansible   732615 2025-05-08 16:26 artifact/controller/controller.pgc    drwxr-xr-x ansible/ansible        0 2025-05-08 16:33 artifact/controller/custom_configs/    drwxr-xr-x ansible/ansible        0 2025-05-08 16:11 artifact/gateway/    -rw-r--r-- ansible/ansible   231155 2025-05-08 16:28 artifact/gateway/gateway.pgc    drwxr-xr-x ansible/ansible        0 2025-05-08 16:26 artifact/hub/    -rw-r--r-- ansible/ansible 29252002 2025-05-08 16:26 artifact/hub/hub.pgc    -rw-r--r-- ansible/ansible      614 2025-05-08 16:24 artifact/secrets.yml    -rw-r--r-- ansible/ansible      338 2025-05-08 16:48 artifact/sha256sum.txt
    ```
    
    
1. Download the `    artifact.tar` and `    artifact.tar.sha256` to your local machine or transfer to the target node with the `    scp` command.


 **Additional resources** 

-  [Backing up your Ansible Automation Platform instance](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/rpm_installation/assembly-platform-install-scenario#con-backup-aap_platform-install-scenario) 


### 6.1.3. Creating and verifying the migration artifact




To create and verify the migration artifact, follow the instructions in [Migration artifact structure and verification](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/ansible_automation_platform_migration/migration-artifact) .

## 6.2. Container-based Ansible Automation Platform




Prepare and export data from your container-based Ansible Automation Platform deployment.

### 6.2.1. Preparing and assessing the source environment




Before beginning your migration, document your current containerized deployment. This documentation serves as a reference throughout the migration process and is critical for properly configuring your target environment.

 **Procedure** 

1. Document the full topology of your current containerized deployment:
    
    
    1. Map out all servers, nodes, and their roles (for example control nodes, execution nodes, database servers).
    1. Note the hostname, IP address, and function of each server in your deployment.
    1. Document the network configuration between components.
    
1. Ansible Automation Platform version information:
    
    
    1. Record the exact Ansible Automation Platform version (X.Y) currently deployed.
    
1. Document the specific version of each component:
    
    
    1. Automation controller version
    1. Automation hub version
    1. Platform gateway version
    
1. Database configuration:
    
    
    1. Database names for each component
    1. Database users and roles
    1. Connection parameters and authentication methods
    1. Any custom PostgreSQL configurations or optimizations
    
1. Identify all custom configurations and settings
1. Document container resource allocations and volumes


### 6.2.2. Exporting the source environment




From your source environment, export the data and configurations needed for migration.

 **Procedure** 

1. Verify the PostgreSQL database version is PostgreSQL version 15.
    
    You can verify your current PostgreSQL version by connecting to your database server and running the following command as the `    postgres` user:
    
    
    ```
    $ psql -c 'SELECT version();'
    ```
    
    Important
    PostgreSQL version 15 is a strict requirement for the migration process to succeed. If running PostgreSQL 13 or earlier, upgrade to version 15 before proceeding with the migration.
    
    If using an Ansible Automation Platform managed database, re-run the installation program to upgrade the PostgreSQL version. If using a customer provided (external) database, contact your database administrator or service provider to confirm the version and arrange for an upgrade if required.
    
    
    
    
1. Create a complete backup of the source environment:
    
    
    ```
    $ ansible-playbook -i &lt;path_to_inventory&gt; ansible.containerized_installer.backup
    ```
    
    
1. Get the connection settings from one node in each of the component groups.
    
    
    - Access the automation controller node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ podman exec -it automation-controller-task bash -c 'awx-manage print_settings | grep DATABASES'
        ```
        
        
    - Access the automation hub node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ podman exec -it automation-hub-api bash -c "pulpcore-manager diffsettings | grep '^DATABASES'"
        ```
        
        
    - Access the platform gateway node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ podman exec -it automation-gateway bash -c "aap-gateway-manage print_settings | grep '^DATABASES'"
        ```
        
        
    
1. Validate the database size and make sure you have enough space on the filesystem for the `    pg_dump` .
    
    You can verify the database sizes by connecting to your database server and running the following command as the `    postgres` user:
    
    
    ```
    $ podman exec -it postgresql bash -c 'psql -c "\l+"'
    ```
    
    Adjust the filesystem size or mount an external filesystem as needed before performing the next step.
    
    Note
    This procedure assumes that all target files will be sent to the `    /tmp` filesystem. You might want to adjust the commands to match your environment’s needs.
    
    
    
    
1. Stage the manually created artifact on the platform gateway node.
    
    
    ```
    # mkdir -p /tmp/backups/artifact/{controller,gateway,hub}
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # mkdir -p /tmp/backups/artifact/controller/custom_configs
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # touch /tmp/backups/artifact/secrets.yml
    ```
    
    
    ```
    # cd /tmp/backups/artifact/
    ```
    
    
1. Perform database dumps of all components on the platform gateway node within the artifact created previously.
    
    To run the `    psql` and `    pg_restore` commands, you must create a temporary container and run the commands inside of it. This command must be run from the database node.
    
    
    ```
    $ podman run -it --rm --name postgresql_restore_temp --network host --volume ~/aap/tls/extracted:/etc/pki/ca-trust/extracted:z --volume ~/aap/postgresql/server.crt:/var/lib/pgsql/server.crt:ro,z --volume ~/aap/postgresql/server.key:/var/lib/pgsql/server.key:ro,z --volume /tmp/backups/artifact:/var/lib/pgsql/backups:ro,z registry.redhat.io/rhel8/postgresql-15:latest bash
    ```
    
    Note
    This command assumes the image `    registry.redhat.io/rhel8/postgresql-15:latest` . If you are missing the image, check the available images for the user with `    podman images ls` .
    
    
    
    The command above opens a shell inside the container named `    postgresql_restore_temp` and has the artifact mounted into `    /var/lib/pgsql/backups` . Also, this command is mounting the PostgreSQL certificates to ensure that you can resolve the correct certificates.
    
    
    ```
    bash-4.4$ cd /var/lib/pgsql/backups    bash-4.4$ psql -h &lt;pg_hostname&gt; -U &lt;component_pg_user&gt; -d &lt;database_name&gt; -t -c 'SHOW server_version;' # ensure connectivity to db    bash-4.4$ pg_dump -h &lt;pg_hostname&gt; -U &lt;component_pg_user&gt; -d &lt;component_pg_name&gt; --clean --create -Fc -f &lt;component&gt;/&lt;component&gt;.pgc    bash-4.4$ ls -ld &lt;component&gt;/&lt;component&gt;.pgc    bash-4.4$ echo "&lt;component&gt;_pg_database: &lt;database_name&gt;" &gt;&gt; secrets.yml ## Add the DB name for the component to the secrets file
    ```
    
    After collecting this data, exit from this temporary container.
    
    
1. Export the secrets from the containerized environment from one node of each component group.
    
    For each step below, use the `    root` user to run the commands.
    
    
    1. Access the automation controller node and gather the secret key and add to the `        controller_secret_key` value in `        secrets.yaml` file.
        
        
        ```
        $ podman secret inspect --showsecret --format "{{.SecretData}}" controller_secret_key
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the automation hub node and gather the secret key and add to the `        hub_secret_key` value in `        secrets.yaml` file.
        
        
        ```
        $ podman secret inspect --showsecret --format "{{.SecretData}}" hub_secret_key
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the automation hub node and gather the `        database_fields.symmetric.key` value and add to the `        hub_db_fields_encryption_key` value in `        secrets.yaml` file.
        
        
        ```
        $ podman secret inspect --showsecret --format "{{.SecretData}}" hub_database_fields
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the platform gateway node and gather the secret key and add to the `        gateway_secret_key` value in `        secrets.yaml` file.
        
        
        ```
        $ podman secret inspect --showsecret --format "{{.SecretData}}" gateway_secret_key
        ```
        
        
    
1. Export automation controller custom configurations.
    
    If any `    extra_settings` exist in your containerized installation inventory, copy them into a new file and saving them under `    /tmp/backups/artifact/controller/custom_configs` .
    
    
1. Package the artifact.
    
    
    ```
    # cd /tmp/backups/artifact/    # [ -f sha256sum.txt ] &amp;&amp; rm -f sha256sum.txt; find . -type f -name "*.pgc" -exec sha256sum {} \; &gt;&gt; sha256sum.txt    # cat sha256sum.txt    # cd /tmp/backups/    # tar cf artifact.tar artifact    # sha256sum artifact.tar &gt; artifact.tar.sha256    # sha256sum --check artifact.tar.sha256    # tar tvf artifact.tar
    ```
    
    Example output of `    tar tvf artifact.tar` :
    
    
    ```
    drwxr-xr-x ansible/ansible        0 2025-05-08 16:48 artifact/    drwxr-xr-x ansible/ansible        0 2025-05-08 16:33 artifact/controller/    -rw-r--r-- ansible/ansible   732615 2025-05-08 16:26 artifact/controller/controller.pgc    drwxr-xr-x ansible/ansible        0 2025-05-08 16:33 artifact/controller/custom_configs/    drwxr-xr-x ansible/ansible        0 2025-05-08 16:11 artifact/gateway/    -rw-r--r-- ansible/ansible   231155 2025-05-08 16:28 artifact/gateway/gateway.pgc    drwxr-xr-x ansible/ansible        0 2025-05-08 16:26 artifact/hub/    -rw-r--r-- ansible/ansible 29252002 2025-05-08 16:26 artifact/hub/hub.pgc    -rw-r--r-- ansible/ansible      614 2025-05-08 16:24 artifact/secrets.yml    -rw-r--r-- ansible/ansible      338 2025-05-08 16:48 artifact/sha256sum.txt
    ```
    
    
1. Download the `    artifact.tar` and `    artifact.tar.sha256` to your local machine or transfer to the target node with the `    scp` command.


 **Additional resources** 

-  [Backing up containerized Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/containerized_installation/aap-containerized-installation#backing-up-containerized-ansible-automation-platform) 


### 6.2.3. Creating and verifying the migration artifact




To create and verify the migration artifact, follow the instructions in [Migration artifact structure and verification](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/ansible_automation_platform_migration/migration-artifact) .

# Chapter 7. Target environment




Prepare, configure, and validate your target Ansible Automation Platform environment.

## 7.1. Container-based Ansible Automation Platform




Prepare and assess your target container-based Ansible Automation Platform environment, and import and reconcile your migrated content.

### 7.1.1. Preparing and assessing the target environment




To prepare your target environment, perform the following steps.

 **Procedure** 

1. Validate the file system home folder size and make sure it has enough space to transfer the artifact.
1. Transfer the artifact to the nodes where you will be working by using `    scp` or any preferred file transfer method. It is recommended that you work from the platform gateway node as it will have access to most systems. However, if you have access or file system space limitations due to the PostgreSQL dumps, then work from the database node.
1. Download the latest version of containerized Ansible Automation Platform from the [Ansible Automation Platform download page](https://access.redhat.com/downloads/content/480/ver=2.5/rhel---9/2.5/x86_64/product-software) .
1. Validate the artifact checksum.
1. Extract the artifact on the home folder for the user running the containers.
    
    
    ```
    $ cd ~
    ```
    
    
    ```
    $ sha256sum-check artifact.tar.sha256
    ```
    
    
    ```
    $ tar xf artifact.tar
    ```
    
    
    ```
    $ cd artifact
    ```
    
    
    ```
    $ sha256sum-check sha256sum.txt
    ```
    
    
1. Generate inventory file for containerized deployment.
    
    Configure the inventory file to match the same topology as the source environment. Configure the component database names and the `    secret_key` values seen on the `    secrets.yml` file from the artifact. You can do this by either setting the extra variables in the inventory file or by using the `    secrets.yml` file as an additional variables file when running the installation program.
    
    
    1. Option 1: Extra variables in the inventory file
        
        
        ```
        $ egrep 'pg_database_key' inventory        controller_pg_database=&lt;redacted&gt;        controller_secret_key=&lt;redacted&gt;        gateway_pg_database=&lt;redacted&gt;        gateway_secret_key=&lt;redacted&gt;        hub_pg_database=&lt;redacted&gt;        hub_secret_key=&lt;redacted&gt;        _hub_database_fields=&lt;redacted&gt;
        ```
        
        Note
        The `        _hub_database_fields` value comes from the `        hub_db_fields_encryption_key` value in your secret.
        
        
        
        
    1. Option 2: Additional variables file
        
        
        ```
        $ ansible-playbook -i inventory ansible.containerized_installer.install -e @~/artifact/secrets.yml -e "_hub_database_fields='{{ hub_db_fields_encryption_key }}'"
        ```
        
        
    
1. Install and configure the containerized target environment.
1. Verify PostgreSQL database version is on version 15.
1. Create a backup of the initial containerized environment.
    
    
    ```
    $ ansible-playbook -i &lt;path_to_inventory&gt; ansible.containerized_installer.backup
    ```
    
    
1. Ensure the fresh installation is functional.


 **Additional resources** 

-  [Backing up containerized Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/containerized_installation/aap-containerized-installation#backing-up-containerized-ansible-automation-platform) 


### 7.1.2. Importing the migration content to the target environment




To import your migration content into the target environment, stop the containerized services, import the database dumps, and then restart the services.

 **Procedure** 

1. Stop the containerized services, except the database.
    
    
    1. In all nodes, if Performance Co-Pilot is configured, run the following command:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user stop pcp
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the automation controller node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user stop automation-controller-task automation-controller-web automation-controller-rsyslog        $ systemctl --user stop receptor
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the automation hub node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user stop automation-hub-api automation-hub-content automation-hub-web automation-hub-worker-1 automation-hub-worker-2
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the Event-Driven Ansible node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user stop automation-eda-scheduler automation-eda-daphne automation-eda-web automation-eda-api automation-eda-worker-1 automation-eda-worker-2 automation-eda-activation-worker-1 automation-eda-activation-worker-2
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the platform gateway node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user stop automation-gateway automation-gateway-proxy
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the platform gateway node when using standalone Redis, or all nodes from the Redis group in your inventory file when using clustered Redis, and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user stop redis-unix redis-tcp
        ```
        
        Note
        In an enterprise deployment, the components run on different nodes. Run the commands on each component node.
        
        
        
        
    
1. Import database dumps to the containerized environment.
    
    
    1. If you are using an Ansible Automation Platform managed database, you must create a temporary container to run the `        psql` and `        pg_restore` commands. Run this command from the database node.
        
        
        ```
        $ podman run -it --rm --name postgresql_restore_temp --network host --volume ~/aap/tls/extracted:/etc/pki/ca-trust/extracted:z --volume ~/aap/postgresql/server.crt:/var/lib/pgsql/server.crt:ro,z --volume ~/aap/postgresql/server.key:/var/lib/pgsql/server.key:ro,z --volume ~/artifact:/var/lib/pgsql/backups:ro,z registry.redhat.io/rhel8/postgresql-15:latest bash
        ```
        
        Note
        The command above opens a shell inside the container named `        postgresql_restore_temp` with the artifact mounted at `        /var/lib/pgsql/backups` . Additionally, it mounts the PostgreSQL certificates to ensure that you can resolve the correct certificates.
        
        The command assumes the image `        registry.redhat.io/rhel8/postgresql-15:latest` is available. If you are missing the image, check the available images for the user with `        podman images ls` .
        
        It also assumes that the artifact is located in the current user’s home folder. If the artifact is located elsewhere, change the `        ~/artifact` with the required path.
        
        
        
        
    1. If you are using a customer-provided (external) database, you can run the `        psql` and `        pg_restore` commands from any node that has these commands installed and that has to access the database. Reach out to your database administrator if you are unsure.
    1. From inside the container, access the database and ensure the users have the `        CREATEDB` role.
        
        
        ```
        bash-4.4$ psql -h &lt;pg_hostname&gt; -U postgres        postgres=# \l        List of databases        Name         |      Owner       | Encoding | Collate   |   Ctype    | Access privileges        --------------------+------------------+----------+-----------+------------+-------------------        automationedacontroller | eda              | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 |        automationhub      | automationhub    | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 |        awx                | awx              | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 |        gateway            | gateway          | UTF8     | en_US.UTF-8 | en_US.UTF-8 |        (4 rows)
        ```
        
        
    1. For each component name, add the `        CREATEDB` role to the `        Owner` . For example:
        
        
        ```
        postgres=# ALTER ROLE awx WITH CREATEDB;        postgres=# \q
        ```
        
        Replace `        awx` with the database owner.
        
        
    1. With the `        CREATEDB` in place, access the path where the artifact is mounted, and run the `        pg_restore` commands.
        
        
        ```
        bash$ cd /var/lib/pgsql/backups        bash$ pg_restore --clean --create --no-owner -h &lt;pg_hostname&gt; -U &lt;component_pg_user&gt; -d template1 &lt;component&gt;/&lt;component&gt;.pgc
        ```
        
        
    1. After the restore, remove the permissions from the user. For example:
        
        
        ```
        postgres=# ALTER ROLE awx WITH NOCREATEDB;        postgres=# \q
        ```
        
        Replace `        awx` with each user containing the role.
        
        
    
1. Start the containerized services, except the database.
    
    
    1. In all nodes, if Performance Co-Pilot is configured, run the following command:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user start pcp
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the automation controller node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user start automation-controller-task automation-controller-web automation-controller-rsyslog        $ systemctl --user start receptor
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the automation hub node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user start automation-hub-api automation-hub-content automation-hub-web automation-hub-worker-1 automation-hub-worker-2
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the Event-Driven Ansible node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user start automation-eda-scheduler automation-eda-daphne automation-eda-web automation-eda-api automation-eda-worker-1 automation-eda-worker-2 automation-eda-activation-worker-1 automation-eda-activation-worker-2
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the platform gateway node and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user start automation-gateway automation-gateway-proxy
        ```
        
        
    1. Access the platform gateway node when using standalone Redis, or all nodes from the Redis group in your inventory when using clustered Redis, and run:
        
        
        ```
        $ systemctl --user start redis-unix redis-tcp
        ```
        
        Note
        In an enterprise deployment, the components run on different nodes. Run the commands on each component node.
        
        
        
        
    


### 7.1.3. Reconciling the target environment post-import




Perform the following post-import reconciliation steps to ensure your target environment is fully functional and correctly configured.

 **Procedure** 

1. Deprovision the platform gateway configuration.
    
    SSH to the host serving a platform gateway container as the same rootless user used in the source environment export, and run the following commands to remove the platform gateway proxy configuration:
    
    
    ```
    $ podman exec -it automation-gateway bash
    ```
    
    
    ```
    $ aap-gateway-manage migrate
    ```
    
    
    ```
    $ aap-gateway-manage shell_plus    &gt;&gt;&gt; HTTPPort.objects.all().delete(); ServiceNode.objects.all().delete(); ServiceCluster.objects.all().delete()
    ```
    
    
1. Transfer custom configurations and settings.
    
    Edit the inventory file and apply any relevant `    extra_settings` to each component by using the `    component_extra_settings` .
    
    
1. Re-run the installation program on the target environment by using the same inventory from the installation.
1. Validate instances for automation execution.
    
    SSH to the host serving an `    automation-controller-task` container as the rootless user, and run the following commands to validate and remove instances that are orphaned from the source artifact:
    
    
    ```
    $ podman exec -it automation-controller-task bash
    ```
    
    
    ```
    $ awx-manage list_instances
    ```
    
    Find nodes that are no longer part of this cluster. A good indicator is nodes with 0 capacity as they have failed their health checks:
    
    
    ```
    [ungrouped capacity=0]    [DISABLED] node1.example.org capacity=0 node_type=hybrid version=X.Y.Z heartbeat="..."    [DISABLED] node2.example.org capacity=0 node_type=execution version ansible-runner-X.Y.Z heartbeat="..."
    ```
    
    Remove those nodes with `    awx-manage` , leaving only the `    aap-controller-task` instance:
    
    
    ```
    awx-manage deprovision_instance --host=node1.example.org    awx-manage deprovision_instance --host=node2.example.org
    ```
    
    
1. Repair orphaned automation hub content links for Pulp.
    
    Run the following command from any host that has direct access to the automation hub address:
    
    
    ```
    $ curl -d '{"verify_checksums": true}' -X POST -k https://&lt;gateway_url&gt;/api/galaxy/pulp/api/v3/repair/ -u &lt;gateway_admin_user&gt;:&lt;gateway_admin_password&gt;
    ```
    
    
1. Reconcile instance groups configuration:
    
    
    1. Go toAutomation Execution→Infrastructure→Instance Groups.
    1. Select the **Instance Group** and then select the **Instances** tab.
    1. Associate or disassociate instances as required.
    
1. Reconcile decision environments and credentials:
    
    
    1. Go toAutomation Decisions→Decision Environments.
    1. Edit each decision environment which references a registry URL either unrelated or no longer accessible to this new environment. For example, the automation hub decision environment might require modification for the target automation hub environment.
    1. Select each associated credential to these decision environments and ensure their addresses align with the new environment.
    
1. Reconcile execution environments and credentials:
    
    
    1. Go toAutomation Execution→Infrastructure→Execution Environments.
    1. Check each execution environment image and verify their addresses against the new environment.
    1. Go toAutomation Execution→Infrastructure→Credentials.
    1. Edit each credential and ensure that all environment specific information aligns with the new environment.
    
1. Verify any further customizations or configurations after the migration, such as RBAC rules with instance groups.


### 7.1.4. Validating the target environment




After completing the migration, validate your target environment to ensure all components are functional and operating as expected.

 **Procedure** 

1. Verify all migrated components are functional.
    
    To ensure that all components have been successfully migrated, verify that each component is operational and accessible:
    
    
    1. Platform gateway: Access the Ansible Automation Platform URL at `        <a class="link" href="https://<gateway_hostname>/">https://&lt;gateway_hostname&gt;/</a>` and verify that the dashboard loads correctly. Check that the platform gateway service is running and properly connected to automation controller.
    1. Automation controller: Under **Automation Execution** , check that projects, inventories, and job templates are present and properly configured.
    1. Automation hub: Under **Automation Content** , verify that collections, namespaces, and their contents are visible.
    1. Event-Driven Ansible (if applicable): Under **Automation Execution Decisions** , verify that rule audits, rulebook activations, and projects are accessible.
        
        For each component, check the logs to ensure there are no startup errors or warnings:
        
        
        ```
        podman logs &lt;container_name&gt;
        ```
        
        
    
1. Test workflows and automation processes.
    
    After you have confirmed that all components are functional, test critical automation workflows to ensure they operate correctly in the containerized environment:
    
    
    1. Run job templates: Run several key job templates, including those with dependencies on various credential types.
    1. Test workflow templates: Run workflow templates to ensure that workflow nodes run in the correct order and that the workflow completes successfully.
    1. Verify execution environments: Ensure that jobs run in the appropriate execution environments and can access required dependencies.
    1. Check job artifacts: Verify that job artifacts are properly stored and accessible.
    1. Validate job scheduling: Test scheduled jobs to ensure they run at the expected times.
    
1. Validate user access and permissions.
    
    Confirm that user accounts, teams, and roles were correctly migrated:
    
    
    1. User authentication: Test login functionality with various user accounts to ensure authentication works correctly.
    1. Role-based access controls: Verify that users have appropriate permissions for organizations, projects, inventories, and job templates.
    1. Team memberships: Confirm that team memberships and team-based permissions are intact.
    1. API access: Test API tokens and ensure that API access is functioning properly.
    1. SSO integration (if applicable): Verify that Single Sign-On authentication is working correctly.
    
1. Confirm content synchronization and availability.
    
    Ensure that all content sources are properly configured and accessible:
    
    
    - Collection synchronization: Check that you can synchronize collections from a remote.
    - Collection Upload: Check that you can upload collections.
    - Collection repositories: Verify that collections are available in automation hub and can be used in execution environments.
    - Project synchronization: Check that projects can sync content from source control repositories.
    - External content sources: Test synchronization from automation hub and Ansible Galaxy (if configured).
    - Execution environment availability: Confirm that all required execution environments are available and can be accessed by the execution nodes.
    - Content dependencies: Verify that content dependencies are correctly resolved when running jobs.
    


 **Additional resources** 

-  [Troubleshooting containerized Ansible Automation Platform](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.5/html/containerized_installation/troubleshooting-containerized-ansible-automation-platform) 


## 7.2. OpenShift Container Platform




Prepare and assess your target OpenShift Container Platform environment, and import and reconcile your migrated content.

### 7.2.1. Preparing and assessing the target environment




To prepare and assess your target environment, perform the following steps.

 **Procedure** 

1. Configure Ansible Automation Platform Operator for an Ansible Automation Platform deployment.
1. Set up the database configuration (internal or external).
1. Set up the Redis configuration (internal or external).
1. Install Ansible Automation Platform using Ansible Automation Platform Operator.
1. Create a backup of the initial OpenShift Container Platform deployment.
1. Verify the fresh installation is functional.


### 7.2.2. Importing the migration content to the target environment




To import your environment, scale down Ansible Automation Platform components, restore databases, replace encryption secrets, and scale services back up.

Note
This guide assumes you have the latest version of Ansible Automation Platform named 'aap' in the default 'aap' namespace and all default database names and database users.



 **Procedure** 

1. Begin by scaling down the Ansible Automation Platform deployment using `    idle_aap` .
    
    
    ```
    oc patch ansibleautomationplatform aap --type merge -p '{"spec":{"idle_aap":true}}'
    ```
    
    Wait for component pods to stop. Only the 6 Operator pods will remain running.
    
    
    ```
    NAME                                                          READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE    pod/aap-controller-migration-4.6.13-5swc6                     0/1     Completed   0          160m    pod/aap-gateway-operator-controller-manager-6b75c95458-4zrxv  2/2     Running     0          26h    pod/ansible-lightspeed-operator-controller-manager-b674c55b8-qncjp 2/2     Running     0          45h    pod/automation-controller-operator-controller-manager-6b79d48d4cchn 2/2     Running     0          45h    pod/automation-hub-operator-controller-manager-5cd674c984-5njfj 2/2     Running     0          45h    pod/eda-server-operator-controller-manager-645f4db5-d2flt     2/2     Running     0          45h    pod/resource-operator-controller-manager-86b8f7bb54-cvz6d     2/2     Running     0          45h
    ```
    
    
1. Scale down the Ansible Automation Platform Gateway Operator and Ansible Automation Platform Controller Operator.
    
    
    ```
    oc scale --replicas=0 deployment aap-gateway-operator-controller-manager automation-controller-operator-controller-manager
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    deployment.apps/aap-gateway-operator-controller-manager scaled    deployment.apps/automation-controller-operator-controller-manager scaled
    ```
    
    
1. Scale up the idled Postgres `    StatefulSet` .
    
    
    ```
    oc scale --replicas=1 statefulset.apps/aap-postgres-15
    ```
    
    
1. Create a temporary Persistent Volume Claim (PVC) with appropriate settings and sizing.
    
     `    aap-temp-pvc.yaml` 
    
    
    ```
    apiVersion: v1    kind: PersistentVolumeClaim    metadata:      name: aap-temp-pvc      namespace: aap    spec:      accessModes:        - ReadWriteOnce      resources:        requests:          storage: 200Gi
    ```
    
    
    ```
    oc create -f aap-temp-pvc.yaml
    ```
    
    
1. Obtain the existing PostgreSQL image to use for temporary deployment.
    
    
    ```
    echo $(oc get pod/aap-postgres-15-0 -o jsonpath="{.spec.containers[*].image}")
    ```
    
    
1. Create a temporary PostgreSQL deployment with the mounted temporary PVC.
    
     `    aap-temp-postgres.yaml` 
    
    
    ```
    kind: Deployment    apiVersion: apps/v1    metadata:      name: aap-temp-postgres    spec:      replicas: 1      selector:        matchLabels:          app: aap-temp-postgres      template:        metadata:          labels:            app: aap-temp-postgres        spec:          containers:            - name: aap-temp-postgres              image: &lt;postgres image from previous step&gt;              command:                - /bin/sh                - '-c'                - sleep infinity              imagePullPolicy: Always              securityContext:                runAsNonRoot: true                allowPrivilegeEscalation: false              volumeMounts:                - name: aap-temp-pvc                  mountPath: /tmp/aap-temp-pvc          volumes:            - name: aap-temp-pvc              persistentVolumeClaim:                claimName: aap-temp-pvc
    ```
    
    
    ```
    oc create -f aap-temp-postgres.yaml
    ```
    
    
1. Copy the export artifact to the temporary PostgreSQL pod.
    
    First, obtain the pod name and set it as an environment variable:
    
    
    ```
    export AAP_TEMP_POSTGRES=$(oc get pods --no-headers -o custom-columns="metadata.name" | grep aap-temp-postgres)
    ```
    
    Test the environment variable:
    
    
    ```
    echo $AAP_TEMP_POSTGRES
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    aap-temp-postgres-7b6c57f87f-s2ldp
    ```
    
    Copy the artifact and checksum to the PVC:
    
    
    ```
    oc cp artifact.tar $AAP_TEMP_POSTGRES:/tmp/aap-temp-pvc/    oc cp artifact.tar.sha256 $AAP_TEMP_POSTGRES:/tmp/aap-temp-pvc/
    ```
    
    
1. Restore databases to Ansible Automation Platform PostgreSQL using the temporary PostgreSQL pod.
    
    First, obtain PostgreSQL passwords for all three databases and the PostgreSQL admin password:
    
    
    ```
    echo    for secret in aap-controller-postgres-configuration aap-hub-postgres-configuration aap-gateway-postgres-configuration    do      echo $secret      echo "PASSWORD: `oc get secrets $secret -o jsonpath="{.data['password']}" | base64 -d`"      echo "USER: `oc get secrets $secret -o jsonpath="{.data['username']}" | base64 -d`"      echo "DATABASE: `oc get secrets $secret -o jsonpath="{.data['database']}" | base64 -d`"      echo    done &amp;&amp; echo "POSTGRES ADMIN PASSWORD: `oc get secrets aap-gateway-postgres-configuration -o jsonpath="{.data['postgres_admin_password']}" | base64 -d`"
    ```
    
    Enter into the temporary PostgreSQL deployment and change directory to the mounted PVC containing the copied artifact:
    
    
    ```
    oc exec -it deployment.apps/aap-temp-postgres /bin/bash
    ```
    
    Inside the pod, change directory to `    /tmp/aap-temp-pvc` and list its contents:
    
    
    ```
    cd /tmp/aap-temp-pvc &amp;&amp; ls -1
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    total 2240    -rw-r--r-- 1 1000900000 1000900000 2273280 Jun 13 17:41 artifact.tar    -rw-r--r-- 1 1000900000 1000900000      79 Jun 13 17:42 artifact.tar.sha256    drwxrws---. 2 root       1000900000   16384 Jun 13 17:40 lost+found
    ```
    
    Verify the archive:
    
    
    ```
    sha256sum --check artifact.tar.sha256
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    artifact.tar: OK
    ```
    
    Extract the artifact and verify its contents:
    
    
    ```
    tar xf artifact.tar &amp;&amp; cd artifact &amp;&amp; sha256sum --check sha256sum.txt
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    ./controller/controller.pgc: OK     ./gateway/gateway.pgc: OK     ./hub/hub.pgc: OK
    ```
    
    Drop the automation controller database:
    
    
    ```
    dropdb -h aap-postgres-15 automationcontroller
    ```
    
    Alter the user temporarily with the `    CREATEDB` role:
    
    
    ```
    postgres=# ALTER USER automationcontroller WITH CREATEDB;
    ```
    
    Create the database:
    
    
    ```
    createdb -h aap-postgres-15 -U automationcontroller automationcontroller
    ```
    
    Revert temporary user permission:
    
    
    ```
    postgres=# ALTER USER automationcontroller WITH NOCREATEDB;
    ```
    
    Restore the automation controller database:
    
    
    ```
    pg_restore --clean-if-exists --no-owner -h aap-postgres-15 -U automationcontroller -d automationcontroller controller/controller.pgc
    ```
    
    Restore the automation hub database:
    
    
    ```
    pg_restore --clean-if-exists --no-owner -h aap-postgres-15 -U automationhub -d automationhub hub/hub.pgc
    ```
    
    Restore the platform gateway database:
    
    
    ```
    pg_restore --clean-if-exists --no-owner -h aap-postgres-15 -U gateway -d gateway gateway/gateway.pgc
    ```
    
    Exit the pod:
    
    
    ```
    exit
    ```
    
    
1. Replace database field encryption secrets.
    
    
    ```
    oc set data secret/aap-controller-secret-key secret_key="&lt;unencoded controller_secret_key value from secrets.yml&gt;"    oc set data secret/aap-db-fields-encryption-secret secret_key="&lt;unencoded gateway_secret_key value from secrets.yml&gt;"    oc set data secret/aap-hub-db-fields-encryption database_fields.symmetric.key="&lt;unencoded hub_db_fields_encryption_key value from secrets.yml&gt;"
    ```
    
    
1. Clean up the temporary PostgreSQL and PVC.
    
    
    ```
    oc delete -f aap-temp-postgres.yaml
    ```
    
    
    ```
    oc delete -f aap-temp-pvc.yaml
    ```
    
    
1. Scale the platform gateway and automation controller Operators back up and wait for the platform gateway Operator reconciliation loop to complete.
    
    The PostgreSQL `    StatefulSet` returns to idle.
    
    
    ```
    oc scale --replicas=1 deployment aap-gateway-operator-controller-manager automation-controller-operator-controller-manager
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    deployment.apps/aap-gateway-operator-controller-manager scaled    deployment.apps/automation-controller-operator-controller-manager scaled
    ```
    
    
    ```
    oc logs -f $(oc get pods --no-headers -o custom-columns="metadata.name" | grep aap-gateway-operator)
    ```
    
    Wait for reconciliation to stop.
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    META: ending play    {"level":"info", "ts":"2025-06-12T15:41:29Z","logger":"runner", "msg": "Ansible-runner exited successfully", "job": "5672263053238024330","name":"aap", "namespace": "aap"}    PLAY RECAP ***********    localhost                  : ok=45   changed=0    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=63    rescued=0    ignored=0
    ```
    
    
1. Scale Ansible Automation Platform back up using `    idle_aap` .
    
    
    ```
    oc patch ansibleautomationplatform aap --type merge -p '{"spec":{"idle_aap":false}}'
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    ansibleautomationplatform.aap.ansible.com/aap patched
    ```
    
    
1. Wait for the `    aap-gateway` pod to be running and clean up old service endpoints.
    
    Wait for the pod to be running.
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    pod/aap-gateway-6c989b846c-47b91 2/2 Running 0 45s
    ```
    
    
    ```
    for i in HTTPPort Route ServiceNode; do; oc exec -it deployment.apps/aap-gateway aap-gateway-manage shell -c 'from aap_gateway_api.models import '$i'; print('$i'.objects.all().delete())'; done
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    (23, {'aap_gateway_api.ServiceAPIRoute': 4, 'aap_gateway_api.AdditionalRoute': 7, 'aap_gateway_api.Route': 11, 'aap_gateway_api.HTTPPort': 1})    (0, {})    (4, {'aap_gateway_api.ServiceNode': 4})
    ```
    
    
1. Run `    awx-manage` to deprovision instances.
    
    Obtain the automation controller pod:
    
    
    ```
    export AAP_CONTROLLER_POD=$(oc get pods --no-headers -o custom-columns=":metadata.name" | grep aap-controller-task)
    ```
    
    Test the environment variable:
    
    
    ```
    echo $AAP_CONTROLLER_POD
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    aap-controller-task-759b6d9759-r59q9
    ```
    
    Enter into the automation controller pod:
    
    
    ```
    oc exec -it $AAP_CONTROLLER_POD /bin/bash    awx-manage list_instances
    ```
    
    Example output:
    
    
    ```
    bash-4.4$    [controlplane capacity=642 policy=100%]    aap-controller-task-759b6d9759-r59q9 capacity=642 node_type=control version=4.6.15 heartbeat="2025-06-12 21:39:48"    node1.example.org capacity=0 node_type=hybrid version=4.6.13 heartbeat="2025-05-30 17:22:11"    [default capacity=0 policy=100%]    node1.example.org capacity=0 node_type=hybrid version=4.6.13 heartbeat="2025-05-30 17:22:11"    node2.example.org capacity=0 node_type=execution version ansible-runner-2.4.1 heartbeat="2025-05-30 17:22:08"
    ```
    
    Remove old nodes with `    awx-manage` , leaving only `    aap-controller-task` :
    
    
    ```
    awx-manage deprovision_instance --host=node1.example.org    awx-manage deprovision_instance --host=node2.example.org
    ```
    
    
1. Run the `    curl` command to repair automation hub filesystem data.
    
    
    ```
    curl -d '{"verify_checksums": true}' -X POST -k https://&lt;aap_url&gt;/api/galaxy/pulp/api/v3/repair/ -u &lt;admin_user&gt;:&lt;restored_admin_password&gt;
    ```
    
    


### 7.2.3. Reconciling the target environment post-import




After importing your migration artifact, perform the following steps to reconcile your target environment.

 **Procedure** 

1. Modify the Django `    SECRET_KEY` secrets to match the source platform.
1. Deprovision and reconfigure platform gateway service nodes.
1. Re-run platform gateway nodes and services register logic.
1. Convert container-specific settings to OpenShift Container Platform-appropriate formats.
1. Reconcile container resource allocations to OpenShift Container Platform resources.


### 7.2.4. Validating the target environment




To validate your migrated environment, perform the following steps.

 **Procedure** 

1. Verify all migrated components are functional.
1. Test workflows and automation processes.
1. Validate user access and permissions.
1. Confirm content synchronization and availability.
1. Test integration with OpenShift Container Platform-specific features.


## 7.3. Managed Ansible Automation Platform




Prepare and migrate your source environment to a Managed Ansible Automation Platform deployment, and reconcile the target environment post-migration.

### 7.3.1. Migrating to Managed Ansible Automation Platform




Follow this procedure to migrate to Managed Ansible Automation Platform.

 **Prerequisites** 

- You have a migration artifact from your source environment.


 **Procedure** 

1. Submit a [support ticket](https://access.redhat.com/support/cases/#/case/new/get-support?caseCreate=true) on the Red Hat Customer Portal requesting a migration to Managed Ansible Automation Platform.
    
    The support ticket should include:
    
    
    - Source installation type (RPM, Containerized, OpenShift)
    - Managed Ansible Automation Platform URL or deployment name
    - Source version (installer or Operator version)
    
1. The Ansible Site Reliability Engineering (SRE) team provides instructions in the support ticket on how to upload the resulting migration artifact to secure storage for processing.
1. The Ansible SRE team imports the migration artifact into the identified target instance and notifies the customer through the support ticket.
1. The Ansible SRE team notifies customers of successful migration.


### 7.3.2. Reconciling the target environment post-migration




After a successful migration, perform the following tasks:

 **Procedure** 

1. Log in to the Managed Ansible Automation Platform instance by using the local administrator account to confirm that data was properly imported.
1. You might need to perform the following actions based on the configuration of the source deployment:
    
    
    1. Reconfigure SSO authenticators and mappings to reflect the new URLs.
    1. Update private automation hub content to reflect the new URLs.
        
        
        1. Run the following command to update the automation hub repositories:
            
            
            ```
            `curl -d '{"verify_checksums": true }' -X POST -k https://&lt;platform_url&gt;/api/galaxy/pulp/api/v3/repair/ -u &lt;admin_user&gt;:&lt;admin_password&gt;`
            ```
            
            
        1. Perform a sync on any repositories configured in automation hub.
        1. Push any custom execution environments from the source automation hub to the target automation hub.
        
    1. Reconfigure automation mesh.
    
1. Following migration, you can request standard SRE tasks through support tickets for the SRE team to perform such as configuration of custom certificates, a custom domain, or connectivity through private endpoints.



<span id="idm139928868156544"></span>
# Legal Notice

Copyright© 2025 Red Hat, Inc.
The text of and illustrations in this document are licensed by Red Hat under a Creative Commons Attribution–Share Alike 3.0 Unported license ("CC-BY-SA"). An explanation of CC-BY-SA is available at [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/) . In accordance with CC-BY-SA, if you distribute this document or an adaptation of it, you must provide the URL for the original version.
Red Hat, as the licensor of this document, waives the right to enforce, and agrees not to assert, Section 4d of CC-BY-SA to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Red Hat, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, the Shadowman logo, the Red Hat logo, JBoss, OpenShift, Fedora, the Infinity logo, and RHCE are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc., registered in the United States and other countries.
Linux® is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States and other countries.
Java® is a registered trademark of Oracle and/or its affiliates.
XFS® is a trademark of Silicon Graphics International Corp. or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries.
MySQL® is a registered trademark of MySQL AB in the United States, the European Union and other countries.
Node.js® is an official trademark of Joyent. Red Hat is not formally related to or endorsed by the official Joyent Node.js open source or commercial project.
TheOpenStack® Word Mark and OpenStack logo are either registered trademarks/service marks or trademarks/service marks of the OpenStack Foundation, in the United States and other countries and are used with the OpenStack Foundation's permission. We are not affiliated with, endorsed or sponsored by the OpenStack Foundation, or the OpenStack community.
All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.





