# 2. Configuring authentication in the Ansible Automation Platform
## 2.5. Configuring an authentication type
### 2.5.1. Updating callback URLs for OAuth and SSO providers




To ensure proper authentication flow after architectural changes in Ansible Automation Platform 2.6, update the `callback_url` in your identity providers (IdPs), such as GitHub, Microsoft Entra ID, Keycloak, Generic OIDC, and Google OAuth. This update redirects the `callback_url` from automation controller to platform gateway. Previously, the `callback_url` was a fixed value; however, it is now dynamically generated and specific to each authenticator instance, as described in the following procedure. This change requires a manual update in your IdP configuration, even after platform upgrades.

Important
After upgrading, your authentication method is disabled. As a platform administrator ensure that you enable the authenticator.



The `callback_url` is normally auto-generated by Ansible Automation Platform once the authentication method is configured. You must copy this generated URL from within Ansible Automation Platform and then paste it into your IdP’s settings.

**Prerequisites**

- You have administrative access to the configuration settings of your external IdP.


**Procedure**

1. Go to your authenticator’s configuration details within the Ansible Automation Platform UI to locate the `    callback_url` .

For more information, see [Displaying authenticator details](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/2.6/html/access_management_and_authentication/gw-configure-authentication#gw-display-auth-details) .


1. Identify and copy the auto-generated **Callback URL** , **Redirect URL** , or **Reply URL** that Ansible Automation Platform provides for your specific authentication method.
1. Update your IdP’s configuration by pasting the copied redirect URL from Ansible Automation Platform into your IdP’s configuration where necessary.


**Verification**

Verify that the `callback_url` has been updated correctly and authentication is working:


- Log in to Ansible Ansible Automation Platform as an administrator account and enable the authentication method, if you have not already.
- Log in to Ansible Automation Platform using the newly configured or updated OAuth or SSO provider. A successful login indicates correct configuration.


